 I. All voters have the right to vote for the candidate of their choosing 
 No candidate shall be required to provide a fee more than 1% of the salary of the office, or submit more than 1000 signatures, to appear on the ballot. No state shall prohibit candidates from collecting signatures to appear on the ballot 365 days before election for that office. There shall be no special ballot access privileges provided by membership in or association with any party, organization, or association. II. All voters have the right to fair congressional districts 
 No state shall limit the right of voters to establish independent citizens redistricting commissions free of elected officials and their agents. All redistricting guidelines, maps, plans, processes, formulas, and algorithms used to draw congressional districts shall be made available for public inspection and comment at least 60 days prior to adoption. Congress shall not limit the right of voters to create at-large, proportional, or combined nonpartisan congressional districts, so long as the number of representatives per state  does not change. No state shall prohibit or otherwise hinder a ballot initiative to reorganize congressional districts or create an independent citizens redistricting commission. III. All voters have the right to transparent elections 
 No state shall limit the access of citizens to safely observe the voting process so long as they do not obstruct the election or voting process. Regardless of method or type of ballot, no state may restrict access to examination of voted ballots, ballot tapes, and executed ballot applications by the public 30 days after an election, and no state may discard any of the above for 24 months after an election. All states shall make the source code of any electronic voting machine used in an election available for public inspection. IV. All voters have the right to access the voting process 
 No state shall require payment for appropriate identification to vote, or the underlying documents required for such identification. No state shall prohibit a nonincarcerated citizen from voting due to criminal history or record. No state shall restrict any registered voter from requesting an absentee ballot. V. All voters have the right to secure elections 
 No state shall prohibit or hinder any citizen from accessing current voter registration lists. Any state that uses electronic voting machines shall use end-to-end encryption on all voting software and systems, and shall have a printed record of each electronic vote.