 President Donald J. Trump released a new policy video today highlighting China’s intrusive actions to own America’s infrastructure and vital industries. Under President Trump’s bold plan, we will enact new and aggressive regulations to prevent America from falling under Chinese control. The United States will also pressure the Chinese to sell off any current holdings that threaten the country’s national and economic security.  
 “To protect our country, we need to enact aggressive new restrictions on Chinese ownership of any vital infrastructure in the United States, including energy, technology, telecommunications, farmland, natural resources, medical supplies, and other strategic national assets,” President Trump said. “When I'm president, I will ensure that America's future remains firmly in American hands just as I did when I was president before.”  
 While corrupt Democrats and RINO-type politicians in Washington have been spending trillions of dollars on the Green New Deal nonsense, foolish foreign wars, and providing lavish benefits to illegal aliens from all over the planet, China has been spending trillions of dollars to take over the crown jewels of the U.S. economy. And they are doing that.  
 As I have long said, Economic Security is NATIONAL security. China does not allow AMERICAN companies to take over THEIR critical infrastructure—and America should not allow CHINA to take over OUR critical infrastructure. I didn’t allow it when I was president, and I won’t allow it when we become president again.  
 To protect our country, we need to enact aggressive new restrictions on Chinese ownership of any vital infrastructure in the United States, including energy, technology, telecommunications, farmland, natural resources, medical supplies, and other strategic national assets. We should stop all future Chinese purchases in these essential industries. And we should begin the process of forcing the Chinese to sell any current holdings that put our national security at risk.  