 We must be able to defend our homeland, our allies, and our military assets around the world from the threat of hypersonic missiles, no matter where they are launched from. Just as President Trump rebuilt our military, President Trump will build a state-of-the-art next-generation missile defense shield to defend America from missile attack.  
 If you take a look right now, the nuclear word is being mentioned all the time. This is a word that you’re not allowed to use. It was never used during the Trump administration, but now other countries are using that word against us because they have no respect for our leadership. World War Three would be a catastrophe unlike any other. This would make World War One and World War Two like very small battles.  
 To this end, when I am Commander-in-Chief—which we did an awfully good job at rebuilding our military. We rebuilt the entire military—once again, I will work with Congress and our great military leaders. Not the ones you see on television, I don’t consider them leaders. We’re going to work with them to build a state-of-the-art next-generation missile defense shield. Just as Israel is now protected by the Iron Dome, a dream once thought impossible, America must have an impenetrable dome to protect our people. We worked with Israel to develop that Dome. They relied on us, not just them, they relied on us.  
 We have technology that’s unsurpassed but our past leaders haven’t really wanted to use it. I rebuilt our military at a level that nobody thought possible, but we have to now go that further step. We must be able to defend our homeland, our allies, and our military assets around the world from the threat of hypersonic missiles—no matter where they are launched from.  
 Just as I rebuilt our military, especially our nuclear capabilities, I will build the shield to defend America from missile attack. We will have a peace through strength. And that’s what we had, and we had no wars during the Trump administration. We had no wars—remember that. Because we were strong, the other side knew it, and they didn’t want to play games, they didn’t want to mess around.  