 President Trump today announced his plan to save American education. His vision will take back control from the Radical Left maniacs indoctrinating our children, and give our kids the high quality, pro-American education they deserve:  Cut federal funding for any school or program pushing Critical Race Theory, gender ideology, or other inappropriate racial, sexual, or political content on our children. Direct the Departments of Justice and Education to open Civil Rights investigations into any school district that has engaged in race-based discrimination, including discrimination against Asian Americans. Because the Marxism being taught in schools is aggressively hostile to Judeo-Christian teachings, aggressively pursue potential violations of the Establishment Clause and the Free Exercise Clause of the Constitution. Find and  remove the radicals who have infiltrated the federal Department of Education , and get to Congress reaffirm the president’s ability to remove recalcitrant employees from the job. Veto the sinister effort to weaponize civics education. Keep men out of women’s sports . Create a new credentialing body to certify teachers who embrace patriotic values , and understand that their job is not to indoctrinate children, but to educate them. Implement massive funding preferences and favorable treatment for all states and school districts that make the following historic reforms in education: Abolish teacher tenure for grades K through 12 and adopt Merit Pay . Drastically cut number of school administrators , including the “DEI” bureaucracy. Adopt a Parental Bill of Rights that includes complete curriculum transparency , and a form of universal school choice .  Implement the direct election of school principals by the parents, as the ultimate form of local control.\  
 The Marxism being preached in our schools is also totally hostile to Judeo-Christian teachings, and in many ways, it is resembling an established new religion. Can’t let that happen. For this reason, my administration will aggressively pursue potential violations of the Establishment Clause and the Free Exercise Clause of the Constitution. That’s very simple.  
 I will veto the sinister effort to weaponize civics education. We will keep men out of women’s sports. And we will create a new credentialing body that will be the Gold Standard, anywhere in the world, to certify teachers who embrace patriotic values, support our way of life, and understand that their job is not to indoctrinate children, but very simply to educate them.  
 Finally, I will implement massive funding preferences and favorable treatment for all states and school districts that make the following historic reforms in education:  One, abolish teacher tenure for grades K through 12, so we can remove BAD teachers, and adopt Merit Pay to reward GOOD teachers. We want great teachers in our schools. Two, drastically cut the bloated number of school administrators, including the costly, divisive, and unnecessary Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion bureaucracy. Three, adopt a Parental Bill of Rights that includes complete curriculum transparency, and a form of universal school choice. And Four, implement the direct election of school principals by the parents. It’s all about the parents for their children. More than anyone else, parents know what their children need. If any principal is not getting the job done, the parents should be able to vote to fire them and select someone who will. This will be the ultimate form of local control. Our country has frankly never had anything like it, or let’s say for at least the last fifty years.  
 We spend more per pupil than any nation in the world by double. We are going to keep spending our money, but we are now going to get our money’s worth. We are at the end of every list on education, and yet we spend the most. We are going to change it around. We may spend the most, but we are going to be tops in education no matter where you go anywhere in the world.  