1. Cut Taxes for Working People 11
2. Lower Food and Grocery Costs 15
3. Lower Health Care Costs 21
4. Lower Prescription Drug Costs 25
5. Lower Energy Costs 28
6. Lower Costs by Protecting Consumers From Fees and Fraud 33
7. Help Americans Buy a Home and Afford Rent 36
8. Invest in the Small Businesses That Drive Growth, Innovation, and Jobs 46
9. Invest in American Innovation and Industrial Strength
10. Create Security and Opportunity for Workers and Build a Care Economy 60
11. Strengthen Opportunity in Communities Across America 64
12. Protect Americans’ Ability to Retire With Dignity 68
13. Make Our Tax Code More Fair and Promote Growth 70
future where everyone has the opportunity not just to get by, but to get ahead.
strong, America is strong. That’s why building up the middle class will be a defining
goal of their Administration.
groceries and cutting taxes for more than 100 million working and middle-class Americans.
starting a business and building wealth. They will bring together workers, community leaders,
our industries into the future—in rural areas, small towns, suburbs, and big cities.
In an Opportunity Economy, more Americans can experience the pride of homeownership.
prices, partnering with the private sector to build 3 million additional homes. As these
opportunity, and security for their loved ones.
shops, high-tech startups, small manufacturers, and more—are the engines of our economy.
of 25 million new business applications. Their plan includes expanding the start-up expense
tape that make it harder to grow a small business.
industries of the future. They will revitalize American manufacturing, strengthen our
industrial base, and invest in cutting-edge technologies. They will create workforce programs
middle class for more Americans that don’t require a college degree. And they will protect
retiring with dignity and getting the benefits they earned.
families. Vice President Harris will be a president for all Americans, a president who unites
people. As a prosecutor, Attorney General, Senator, and now Vice President of the United
States, that has always been her life’s work.
economy from a Vice President Harris win. They estimate tariffs would reduce global growth and increase inflation in the
that job growth will be higher and inflation lower than if United States by almost 1 percentage point.5
costs for American families and businesses. The American
risk of a recession.”7
cost 3.2 million jobs, add over 1 percent to inflation, and
reduce middle-class families’ incomes by $2,000.3
Times and University of Chicago found that 70 percent Model and the Tax Foundation. The Penn Wharton Model
fiscally irresponsible.”11
Budget, emphasize Harris’s plan is more fiscally responsible. The Wall Street Journal agrees: “Vice President Harris,
not a close call. If the deficit is your top issue, Harris is the the same on fiscal policy. She has outlined or endorsed
clear choice.”9 enough fiscal measures—tax increases or spending cuts—
to plausibly pay for much of her agenda. He has not.”12
economic stability and security they need to not just get by but to get ahead. They know
Americans take care of themselves and their families.
earning less than $400,000 a year will pay more in taxes. American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander child poverty
rates.17 In addition, Vice President Harris’s monthly tax relief
families with children.18
largest tax cuts ever passed for the middle-class. It gave
made them less stressed about household expenditures.13 middle-income and low-income families for the first year of
For millions of middle-class working families, the expanded their child’s life. This is often when a family’s expenses are
clothes, and toys.14 While the extension of this vital tax relief income as they take time off from their job without any paid
for working families was blocked by Republican opposition leave. Indeed, most families’ incomes significantly decline
in Congress, Vice President Harris and Governor Walz have during their child’s first year of life.19 A substantial body of
make it the permanent law of the land. It will provide a tax period of development for children and has long-lasting
credit of up to $3,600 per child for the middle class and the effects on future “learning, behavior, and health.”20
most hard-pressed working families with children.
more than 40 million working families with over 60 million Tax Credit is backed by significant economic evidence.
children. The benefits of the expanded Child Tax Credit were Researchers have found that expanding the Child Tax Credit
widespread. It provided tax relief to the families of more than returns as much as $15 to society for every $1 investment
veteran and active-duty families.16 The Child Tax Credit future earnings.21
cent of recipients using direct deposit.
middle class.
different vision. He has
for working Americans. She supported the first increase in
workers who aren’t raising a child in their home. The Earned
of and lowers taxes for low-to-moderate income workers. Vice
drugs. This tax has been
these workers to more than $1,500 for 2021.
nearly $4,000 per year.24
excluded before this reform. This expansion cut taxes for
17 million American workers—including 1.1 million cashiers,
and millions of other workers.22
This policy worked. The Center on Poverty and Social Policy at
also reduced food insufficiency and difficulty with expenses.”23
to cut their taxes by up to $1,500.
Misc. Agricultural Workers 178,000
Managers of Retail Sales...
Stock,and Material...
Marr, C., et al. “Congress Should Adopt American Families Plan’s Permanent Expansions of Child Tax Credit and EITC, Make Additional
Provisions Permanent.” Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. May 24, 2021. https://www.cbpp.org/research/federal-tax/con-
gress-should-adopt-american-families-plans-permanent-expansions-of-child.
leaving families’ budgets pinched even as corporate profits have increased. In just the past
markets. Although inflation has significantly declined—with monthly grocery price inflation
higher than before the pandemic struck.
down Americans’ grocery costs. grocers, and growers the resources to compete,
lowering costs for Americans. This includes proposing
resilient food supply chains. The Vice President will build
can grow into competitors. This will build on the billions in
chains for food production, processing, and distribution.
and farm workers to compete with large conglomerates.
a drought or pest affects a particular region. Vice President
suppliers and small farms, growers, and processors to create federal ban on price gouging. The bill will set rules of
broad-based supply chains. the road to make clear that big corporations can’t unfairly
corporate profits on food and groceries.
marketplace means lower costs for consumers. She will It is well established that price fluctuations are normal in
to jack up food and grocery prices by instructing agencies to can at times signal to markets to increase supply. But while
raise grocery prices for consumers. On top of this, she’ll not be able to exploit times of crisis to excessively and
prosecuting price-fixing—where companies illegally collude American families. Evidence suggests that in some cases,
to set prices—up and down food supply chains. Finally, she this is exactly what has happened. In an investigation into
and grocery industries. beverage retailers saw their revenues rise much faster than
costs in recent years. Indeed, the CEO of a major grocery
inflation is always good for our business.”25
and distribution.
emergencies or times of crisis. When an emergency strikes,
jack up prices.
tools, or another necessity.”26
sold for $4-$10 per gallon. Ultimately,
agreed to refund customers.27
cy or which are consumed or used general public ... to sell or offer to sell dwelling units, or self-storage facilities
to preserve, protect, or sustain life, any such goods or services or both for at an unconscionable price. The law
of persons or their property with the scionably excessive price.”30 one that grossly exceeds the average
that is unreasonably excessive under disaster declaration. Businesses can
the circumstances.”28 demonstrate that the price was not
market trends.34
led by Attorney General Josh Stein, has pandemic. In January 2020, Hillandale
consumers by bringing 12 lawsuits from $0.59 to $1.10 for a dozen eggs.31 General brought three lawsuits against
against 29 defendants. Through In mid-March, however, Hillandale Florida motels for price gouging during
those lawsuits, Attorney General raised that price to $1.49. In the months Hurricane Matthew in 2016. First, more
settlement—the largest price gouging in January. New York settled the lawsuit between $89 and $209 per night.
settlement in the state’s history.29 with Hillandale in April 2021.32 Those rates were between 72 percent
two months. When Hurricane Matthew
prices to its pre-hurricane levels. A
Red Roof Inn in Clearwater. The
prices. Walgreens ultimately settled the
emergency. A third lawsuit was filed
against a Sleep Inn & Suites in Lakeland.
infant children.33
during the state of emergency. At least
hurricane hit.35
staples like food, clothing, gas, and medicine. Multiple studies have shown that this national sales tax on family
goods that are imported will have high cost increases for families.36 For example, he would place tariffs on
are staples for many American households. Indeed, an economist at the Tax Foundation has found that the
without increasing food production here in the United States.39 Many agricultural products that American families
if they were grown elsewhere.40 Rigidly requiring that American families can only access food grown here in the
United States would simply raise costs and reduce access to everyday food items that working families need.
handouts. Similarly, the assistance he gave farms to help withstand his trade war with China went mostly to the
family farms.41
strides in expanding health care coverage.
highest insured rate in history.42 During the Biden-
Americans.43 Nearly ten million more Americans
expand Medicaid coverage. Despite the progress
for too many Americans. Furthermore, nearly
unpaid medical expenses.44
affordable health care is a right, not a privilege. A Harris-Walz
more accessible to more Americans.
ketplace plans. Vice President Harris cast the tie-breaking
average of $800 a year on their health insurance premiums.
more than $6,000 per year on average.45 Because of these
and middle-class families permanent.
the lowest uninsured rate in American history. Now, Vice
savings for working and middle-class families permanent.46
prices by limiting competition.
for veterans. Since its enactment two years ago under the
claims approved. Vice President Harris and Governor Walz
to our country.
NOTE Due to disruptions in data collection during the first year of the pandemic, the Census Bureau did not release ACS 1-year estimates in 2020.
17.0% 16.8%
10.9% 10.0%10.2%10.4% 10.9% 10.2%
plans to prevent debt accumulation in the future. She could charge women more than men, where families
will provide them the breathing room needed to start health care premiums based on their age. If he returns to
they need to pursue their dreams.47 It also comes after of their coverage and kick millions more off of Medicaid.
debt for nearly 3 million Americans. disabilities—into separate “high-risk pools,” where they
receive basic care. Under their plan, more than 100 million
crisis and help Americans access treatment. As Vice
insurance coverage. Vice President Harris and Governor
amounts of fentanyl from crossing our borders. Vice
Walz know we can’t go back to that.
substance abuse treatments. If elected, they will continue
with addiction get the treatment they need.
food on the table. That’s why, as California’s Attorney General, the
brought against their unsafe and unfair tactics.48 And that’s why Vice President
Harris, along with President Biden, took on Big Pharma and won. They lowered
out-of-pocket drug expenses. In 2026 alone, American taxpayers are predicted
anticipated to save $1.5 billion in out-of-pocket costs, just from Medicare price
negotiation.49 On top of that, the administration succeeded in capping insulin at
were paying as much as $400 a month for this lifesaving treatment.50 Because
need these devices to breathe hundreds of dollars a year.51
more work to do. Americans spend more than twice as much on prescription
drugs as citizens from many other countries do.52 In fact, on average, Americans
drugs.53 Nearly 10 million Americans report not taking their medication as
prescribed because of cost concerns.54
Way Forward that not only protects these achievements but knowing that they can afford the medications they need.
cost-saving provisions to benefit all Americans. fighting to lower prescription drug costs for Americans.
prescribed because of cost concerns.
seniors. This action would bring significant relief for costs. His Project 2025 agenda calls for repealing the
drug negotiations. This will build on the Biden-Harris
enough food for the month.
in 2026.55 Vice President Harris will allow Medicare to
more drugs come down faster.
the health care industry. Vice President Harris will
raise costs for consumers.
to come down. That’s why Vice President
presided over historic progress in this sector.
threatening our national security. Now,
ever before, with record energy production.56
it consumes has never been greater.58 Prices
and are approaching a three-year low.59
emissions from the power sector.60 All of this
and technologies.
all. They will also safeguard America’s energy security.
our environment and public health. Since the Inflation Reduction Act was passed, companies
than 330,00061 new jobs. As a result of these investments, national battery storage capacity
reach a record high in 2024.64 Today, U.S. energy production across a diverse set of sources,
remains committed to supporting U.S. energy production growth so that we never again have
to rely on foreign oil.
build on efforts to directly lower home energy costs for working families. Thanks to tax
credits on home energy technologies in the Inflation Reduction Act, more than 3.4 million
American families saved $8.4 billion in 2023. These tax credits can save families up to 30
percent off heat pumps, insulation, rooftop solar, and other clean energy technologies.
applicable households around $5,000 per year.65 In addition, Vice President Harris has led
maintain safe and healthy indoor temperatures.66 As President, she will continue that work
to lower American families’ energy costs.
providing resilience to climate disasters, and bringing down costs.
8,000 TWh technology to China.
security.67 Vice President
SOURCE Our World in Data. “Oil production.” https://ourworldindata.org/grapher/oil-production-by-country.
back. We will invest in
here at home.
sources including geothermal, biomass, waste, Energy (2024) OurWorldinData.org/renewable-energy | CC-BY
wave and tidal. Traditional biomass is not included.
U.S. primary energy overview, 1950–2023
DATA SOURCEU.S. Energy Information Administration, Monthly Energy Review, Table 1.1 April 2024, preliminary data for 2023
5.8 million customers roughly $400 million. FPL is building
largest solar expansion.
could generate $1.4B in savings for its customers over the
next ten years.
In Wisconsin, WEC Energy Group added $2.4 billion to its
due in part to the Inflation Reduction Act. The company
customers roughly $2 billion over the long term.
energy bills.
and 30 percent off the cost of new insulation.
on energy bills.
SOURCE The White House. “FACT SHEET: One Year In, President Biden’s Inflation Reduction
and Reduce Costs.” August 16, 2023. https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-
reduce-costs.
scams, and fraud. These practices are costly. For example, junk fees—
transaction—distort competition and lead to customers paying more. The
cumulative $90 billion or more across the economy.68 Vice President Harris
are not being scammed or swindled out of their hard-earned savings.
Vice President Harris has a long history of fighting for consumers. As Attorney General of California,
she stood up to bad actors when they were ripping people off. Her Mortgage Fraud Strike Force
helped to target scams, predatory lending, and deceptive marketing.69 She also worked to protect
entitled to. As San Francisco’s District Attorney, she also prosecuted elder fraud cases.
down on junk fees and save consumers time and money.70 This includes rules to ban junk fees
across the board71 and make it as easy to cancel a subscription as it is to subscribe.72 The
also fighting junk fees. The Council of Economic Advisers recently estimated that just the actions
per year going forward.73
A Harris-Walz Administration will fight to protect American consumers. They will continue to take
insurance claims, or other types of customer service doom loops and dead ends. They will also
of all kinds from robocalls and texts to financial fraud, particularly those that target seniors.
an opportunity to build intergenerational wealth.
mobility and wealth creation. Over the past 15 years,
United States has significantly lagged behind demand.
harder for Americans to buy their first homes.74 For too long,
that first-time homebuyers can afford to purchase.75 While
bring down housing costs.76
renters and homeowners. The President of the National Housing Coalition called Vice President
Harris’s plan “detailed, serious, and impactful.”77 The Chief Economist of Moody’s Analytics
in housing that followed World War II.”78 And the National Association of Homebuilders said
her plan will “help builders to construct badly needed new homes and apartments.”79
1. Unlocking 1.2 million new affordable 2. Creating a new tax credit to rehabilitate
for the private sector. want to stay in their communities.
percent of their income on rent—representing almost half homes that will be owner-occupied. As a result, fewer
of the renting households in the country.80 That’s more than new homes are constructed in distressed communities,
double the share that had a similar rent burden in 1960.81 and a lack of resources results in existing homes falling
a downward spiral.
affordable rental housing. This program works by helping the new construction or rehabilitation of over 400,000
developers cover the large upfront costs that come with owner-occupied homes in lower income communities.
building affordable units. Vice President Harris will unlock As with the LIHTC program, each state would receive an
supply by more than 1.2 million new affordable homes, the amount of credit needed to make a construction or a
which will reduce rental prices. By passing a historic preservation project in a particular community financially
expansion of the LIHTC program, Vice President Harris will viable. The credit would only be available for single-family
who needs one. down roots in a community—not supporting private equity
homebuyers that simply seek to turn a profit.
SOURCE U.S. Census Bureau and U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, New Privately-Owned
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. “New Privately-Owned Housing Units Completed: Total Units.” Updated Sep-
tember 18, 2024. https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/COMPUTSA.
2.9 mil homes, consistent with
pent-up household formations.
3. Building up supply through the first-ever
for first-time homebuyers.
demand, making it harder for them to enter the market. In
2010s.98 Moody’s finds that, even as the building of new
been at the higher end of the housing market. Demand
to build more. The margins that builders could get from
the high fixed costs of building.”99
time homebuyers.
ers to build affordable homes for first-time homebuyers.
within reach for younger families. This would complement
difficult to develop or rehabilitate. The National Association
and apartments.”100
4. Launching a $40 Billion Local Innovation
a barrier to building more. Vice President Harris’s plan would
expand the housing supply. This could include financing the
housing construction. This will be a results-driven innovation
properties and homes that are affordable. Simultaneously,
lower costs.
address the affordable housing crisis. State and local gov-
affordable housing through innovative investments.
largest ever investment in affordable housing.83
tax-foreclosed residential properties.84
Home Repair Program.”85
1. Taking on algorithmic price fixing, which distort 2. Stopping Wall Street investors from buying
markets, and ending unfair practices that help large up and marking up homes in bulk.
corporate landlords dramatically raise rents.
rents in communities across the country. During the downturns. The “share of investor purchases” made by large
increases. These services are centered around increasing 2021, according to the Joint Center for Housing Studies.87 In
landlord yield and pushing their pricing power. They can 2021, large institutional investors bought 28 percent of homes
more apartments are vacant. One major price-setting purchases in Atlanta).88 Research from the Urban Institute
“driving” significant rent increases—noting that few land- more frequently than local owners with smaller portfolios.”89
within a single month by doing it manually.”86 up homes in communities of color and low- and moderate-
income communities. The National Association of Retailers
practices illegal under antitrust laws.
of institutional buyers.”90
that acquire large numbers of single-family rental homes.
ASSISTANCE FOR FIRST-TIME HOMEBUYERS.
Many Americans work hard at their jobs, save, and pay their rent on time month after month.
payment—denying them a shot at owning a home and building wealth. As Vice President
those whose parents did not own a home.
significant barrier for first-time homebuyers. Some first-time homebuyers can rely on family
today use a gift or loan from their family or friends.91 But for millions of Americans, working
savings needed for a home purchase.
as a barrier to buying a home.
to buying a home.92 For a significant number of first-time homebuyers, up to $25,000 in
simply paying rent year after year with no end in sight. The Urban Institute found that
from state Housing Finance Agencies used down-payment assistance.93
home.94 Numerous other places from the state of Nevada to cities like Louisville, Kentucky;
or expand down-payment assistance.
With Vice President Harris’s plan, millions of renters would be able to buy their first homes.
housing gap and lead to a historic 11.7 million more first-time homebuyers, including
2.75 million first-time Black and Latino homeowners. This is 3.2 million more first-time
place without the Harris-Walz plan.
homeownership based on medical debt and limited credit history. The Administration sought
ment. The addition of positive rental history allowed FHA’s credit evaluation to be more
loans. In addition, Vice President Harris spearheaded work to prohibit medical bills from
on credit reports should not restrict access to housing.
to buy their first homes.
homeownership out of reach. As a landlord, he was sued by the Justice Department for
turning away Black tenants.95 Then he tried to force people out of their affordable homes
so he could charge higher prices.96 It’s no surprise that, as President, he tried to gut rental
assistance and raise homeowners’ monthly mortgage payments. He tried to triple rents on
elderly, and people with disabilities—putting 1 million children at risk of homelessness. Now,
limits” on rental assistance programs.
purchase a home. It would increase mortgage insurance premiums on many Federal Housing
Administration (FHA)–backed loans—or those loans with a small down payment. On top of
for FHA-insured mortgages.
at the expense of working people. He would drive up mortgage premiums by $1,200 a year
privatization—at the expense of working families.
SOURCE Moody’s Analytics; New Homeowners in 2025-2028 Under Harris Plan vs. Baseline
Zhao, Na. “Homeownership Rates by Race and Ethnicity.” National Association of Homebuilders. February 6, 2024.
https://eyeonhousing.org/2024/02/homeownership-rates-by-race-and-ethnicity-3
and more—are the engines of our economy.
workers—more than 60 million Americans.115 Since
new jobs, adding trillions of dollars to the U.S. economy.116
looked. As Vice President, she established the Economic
and wealth in historically underserved communities. And as
Indian Country.
with a record 19 million new business applications.
in 2024, 50 percent more than in 2019. Entrepreneurs
are near all-time highs.101 Additionally, Black and Latino Higher Revenue
between FY 2020 and FY 2023.103 Loans and federal con-
merce and other important incubator organizations.104
small businesses grow and succeed. SOURCE U.S. Chamber of Commerce/MetLife
Van Nostrand, Eric. “Small Business and Entrepreneurship in the Post-COVID Expansion.”
U.S. Department of Treasury. September 3, 2024. https://home.treasury.gov/news/featured-
stories/small-business-and-entrepreneurship-in-the-post-covid-expansion.
more than in 2019.
growth, and build wealth for the middle class. They will launch
growth all across America.
economic future. Small businesses are responsible for most
of the net job creation for Americans over the last decade.105
part in our long history as a nation of entrepreneurs. As Vice
the country. She and Governor Walz will build on that success,
the Biden-Harris Administration. Reaching Vice President
further revival in more young, small, and innovative firms.108
Helping Entrepreneurs Get Their Ideas Off the Ground Hampshire to Arizona. Incubators will help small businesses
Ten-Fold Increase. Entrepreneurs need to have access to customers to start or expand their business. Hubs will help
capital to launch their ideas. New small businesses spend an advanced manufacturers commercialize by connecting them
operations. To help give small businesses, entrepreneurs, and funded research facilities, technical assistance, and funding.
expanding the startup expense deduction from $5,000 to private sector to strengthen the competitiveness of U.S.
$50,000—and allow new businesses the flexibility to use the manufacturing. These targeted proposals to encourage new
taxes when they start to make a profit. For example, a small and Governor Walz’s plans to remove other barriers that com-
years to claim this deduction. starting a new business.
Domestic Manufacturing and Advanced Industry. especially those with pre-existing conditions—from launching
continue to drive growth for small U.S. manufacturers, es. They will make permanent the premium tax credits that
suppliers, and other businesses. Vice President Harris and are saving an average of $800 per year for millions of small
and small business innovation hubs. This will be designed to debt. They also have a plan—the boldest in a generation—to
Hubs,111 and more—everywhere from Wisconsin to New they need to start a business and hire workers.
U.S. manufacturing.
SOURCE Authors’ analysis of U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, “Business Employment
size of firm,” available at https://www.bls.gov/bdm/ (last accessed February 2024);
U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, “Labor Force Statistics from the Current Population
Survey,” available at https://www.bls.gov/cps/ (last accessed February 2024).
Duke, Brendan. “Entrepreneurship, Startups, and Business Formation Are Booming
Across the U.S.” Center for American Progress. March 18, 2024. https://www.
americanprogress.org/article/entrepreneurship-startups-and-business-formation-are-
Entrepreneurs Grow Their Businesses and Create Jobs by the end of her first term in office.
With Low- or Zero-Interest Loans. Small businesses and
Cutting Red Tape. Vice President Harris and Governor Walz
entrepreneurs fuel growth and jobs. Too often, however, a
businesses back. Many regulations are essential to fairness,
generate the revenue needed to make initial loan payments.
cover interest costs while small businesses are expanding.
regulations. A Harris-Walz Administration will address that by:
create jobs in communities across the United States.
Taxes. Around one in three small business owners spend
$1,000 each year to do so. A Harris-Walz Administration
Businesses. Contracts to provide goods and services for
sustained funding. Under the Vice President’s leadership,
are tax compliant.
dollars to small businesses in FY 2023.113 However, rural
Licensing Requirements. Entrepreneurs and small
11 percent of overall U.S. small businesses.114 A Harris-Walz
in each state. Vice President Harris and
licensing agreements to recognize substantially similar speed internet. A Harris-Walz Administration will help new
or universal licensing recognition. And they will help
America, and Underserved Communities. Vice
portable across states. They will also instruct federal
Licensing Relief Act signed by President Biden. And
underserved communities. Under Vice President
experience for civilian work.
Businesses and Entrepreneurs. Vice President Harris America. Vice President Harris is calling for additional
other support. financing to small businesses.
Red Tape. A Harris-Walz Administration will encourage to All States and Territories. Communities and small
business licensing; expediting review of building, public to access. Vice President Harris and Governor Walz will
compliance requirements. They would do this by getting access to the information they need across
leveraging federal funding and encouraging states every state and territory. This will help entrepreneurs
streamline processes for businesses. successfully apply for federal funds.
Investing in All of America. Opportunities to turn a good Vice President Harris and Governor Walz believe in the
dollars. That’s why Vice President Harris has been fighting to his way to make it harder for small businesses and
support small businesses in middle America, rural areas, and entrepreneurs to thrive. He made it easier for predatory
underserved communities across the country. As a Senator, lenders to charge high interest rates, tried to cut programs
ment Financial Institutions (CDFIs). As Vice President, she connected corporations.
Duke, Brendan. “Entrepreneurship, Startups, and Business Formation Are Booming
Across the U.S.” Center for American Progress. March 18, 2024. https://www.
americanprogress.org/article/entrepreneurship-startups-and-business-formation-
the middle class. Disinvestment in manufacturing
hollowed out American manufacturing leading the U.S.
in 1997 to 17 percent in 2021. This decline led the United
products such as semiconductors, which the U.S. went
period. As a result, American manufacturing communities
to disruptions of critical goods and inputs. Recent supply
States to reinvest in its domestic industrial base. Whether
or formula disruptions, a new direction was needed.
manufacturing workers.
investments in American manufacturing in generations.
of investments in manufacturing and related sectors.117 These
to semiconductors and clean energy technology.118 And
effective oversight.
end of his presidency, while the U.S. has already added over
many more to come as additional projects come online.119
shrink in the last two decades.120 And in 1,000 “left-behind
21st century.121 Some of the greatest beneficiaries of this
degrees, as the vast majority of jobs won’t require a degree.122
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. “Real private fixed investment: Nonresidential:
Structures: Manufacturing.” Updated August 29, 2024. https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/
C307RX1Q020SBEA.
are critical for our economic and national security. They will create an America Forward
deploying technologies and manufacturing them at scale. This strategy will focus both on
AI, aerospace, data centers, and clean energy. Their strategy includes both investing in
emerging technologies and modernizing traditional industries. It will also encourage innovative
technologies like AI and digital assets while protecting our consumers and investors.
creation in key strategic industries. It will be structured as tax credits that prioritize doing
take place in longstanding manufacturing, farming, and energy communities. The types of
investing in aerospace, autos, and other forms of transportation. America cannot
national security.
retool or rebuild an existing facility. These new tax credits will also reward companies
ing workers at comparable wages. There will be a special focus on rewarding reinvest-
Pennsylvania’s Mon Valley.
and secure America’s research base. Vice President Harris and Governor Walz know that
basic research while also commercializing at scale. They are proposing a historic investment
responsible discovery and innovation in AI. They will also continue the commitments set
workers and consumers as technology advances, and develop a skilled federal AI workforce.
by cutting red tape. They know that it takes too long to build in America, and they support
and protect our environment and public health. Thanks to Vice President Harris’s leadership,
with strong community buy-in. The Vice President cast the tie-breaking vote to secure
strong community buy-in.
agencies can expedite projects that will lower costs without harming the environment. And
reflecting businesses’ confidence that their investments will pay off. When these projects
are completed, businesses can hire and fill these factories with workers.
moving forward. A Harris-Walz Administration will be laser-focused on accelerating projects
down, including through permitting reform.
competitors. The America Forward tax credit will invest American manufacturing and established himself as one
win in the 21st century. Vice President Harris won’t let other history. He failed to pass an infrastructure plan that could
our workers and U.S. manufacturing. The Biden-Harris industries like steel. He ceded the production of the cars of
Administration has stood up to China when it breaks the the future to China. He passed a $2 trillion tax law that gave
workers and businesses by engaging in unfair trade practices created new incentives to ship jobs overseas.123 He waged
or intellectual property theft. As President, she will not exports, and stunted our economic growth.124 He passed no
hesitate to take action when our workers and businesses manufacturing legislation. He took no action to stop auto
are threatened, whether it is in shipbuilding, electric vehi- plant closures in places like Lordstown, Ohio.125 The result:
cles, or intellectual property. She believes in upholding and close to 200,000 American manufacturing workers lost
protect fair trade and create predictability and stability. during the pandemic, manufacturing jobs still grew more
comeback spurred by Vice President Harris’s leadership.126
available to those without a college degree. For too
a four-year college degree. Vice President Harris and
job should be able to get it regardless of their degree status.
earning a good salary where they live.
needed for half a million federal jobs. They will challenge
requirements. They will encourage the private sector to
and creative public-private efforts to open these pathways.
barriers to occupational licensing across state lines. At the
researchers to compete globally.
Workers should have many paths to success, not just a four-year college degree.
requirements. The Brookings Institution found that degree requirements significantly affect
around 70 million workers, who are unable to obtain jobs they are otherwise qualified for.
college programs, military service, and on-the-job experience.127
those with college degrees. They will support all viable, without four-year college degrees, a significantly higher
high-quality paths to good jobs, such as registered share than for the overall U.S. labor market.128 Through the
industries, and career and technical education programs. construction jobs and training skilled construction trades
As President, she will get rid of unnecessary degree workers to meet demand.
governments to take similar action.
working to increase workers’ wages. They will fight to
taxes on tips for service and hospitality workers. This will
help put more money into workers’ pockets.
from funds to create pathways into good construction jobs.
degrees. The Biden-Harris Administration invested more than
pre-apprenticeship programs. Registered Apprenticeships
improve workforce pathways to good jobs.
and individuals can obtain paid work experience. Under the private sector resources to build up a trained workforce to
and new apprenticeship programs increased by 10 percent. ence Act. In Columbus, Ohio, this work will prepare at least
demand in the region.129
turing comeback, driven by skill-based labor. Experts
President Harris will provide a pathway to the middle won historic wage and benefits increases. Unions
class through high-quality, affordable education. representing workers—from auto workers to truck drivers
affordable, high-quality child care and preschool. She will job creation with clear support for the right to collectively
also strengthen public education and training as a pathway bargain from the White House. However, there are still
higher education more affordable, so that college can be a striking workers. Additionally, workers continue to face
ticket to the middle class. To date, Vice President Harris has barriers to organizing and repeated misclassification as
helped deliver the largest investment in public education in independent contractors.
with union workers. If elected, the Vice President will sign
Institutions, and other minority-serving institutions.130 She
choose to organize and bargain. She will also sign the Public
public service workers to form unions the law of the land.
community colleges.
from freely organizing. She will also continue to fight for
thresholds. Finally, Vice President Harris will not tolerate
undermines American workers.
need and the people they love. Too often, caretakers must make
children or ailing family members. Caring for children is the leading
50 percent of women citing the cost or quality of care as a factor.131
challenges with child care cut into their work hours or productivity.132
had access to short-term disability insurance through their employer.133 Families aren’t the only
ones hurt by the lack of high-quality, affordable care. The child care gap continues to cost the
U.S. economy well over $100 billion a year in lost wages, revenue, and taxes.134
Americans and loved ones with physical, intellectual, or developmental disabilities. Over the
$2 trillion to the U.S. economy.135 Under Vice President Harris and President Biden’s leadership,
highs. With stronger care policies, those levels of workforce participation can unquestionably
go even higher.
25–54 yrs., Women
U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. “Labor Force Statistics from the Current Population Survey, (Seas) Labor
Force Participation Rate - 25-54 yrs., Women.” Updated September 21, 2024. https://data.bls.gov/data-
Viewer/view/timeseries/LNS11300062.
supporting care workers and family caregivers. They
to work and strengthens the entire economy.
care economy. Those investments cut child care expenses
per year by slowing the rise of child care prices.136 It also Health-Related Reason
Wielk, Emily. “Women in the Workforce Need Family-Focused Policy.” Bipartisan Policy
and raise pay, improve benefits, and expand opportunities Center. October 10, 2023. https://bipartisanpolicy.org/blog/women-in-the-work-
force-need-family-focused-policy.
disabilities and seniors in their home or community.
expanded Child Tax Credit and expand it further to provide all Americans. And they will work to boost wages of care
up to a $6,000 tax cut to families with newborn children. workers and make sure they are treated with the dignity and
This will help parents in the first year of a child’s life—a respect they deserve.
seats, and more. They believe no child in America should live
in poverty, and this reform will have a historic impact.
care and preschool for working families, expand affordable, benefits.137 He proposed cutting Medicaid, which covers
provides for home-based care for many of them.138 And
support for the nation’s most vulnerable students.
status. Vice President Harris demonstrated
Institution (CDFI) Equitable Recovery Program.139
areas to Indian Country.140
Vice President Harris carried this philosophy forward to the White House. From the outset,
programs, no matter the demographics, or how large or small the community was. The
state.141 The Child Care Stabilization program supported more than 225,000 child care
roughly $1,250 per child per year and helping increase worker wages.143 The expanded Child
bringing Black and Hispanic child poverty to record lows while the tax credit was in effect.145
support directly to every state.
Vice President Harris also believes that Americans living in U.S. territories, including Puerto
Rico, deserve the opportunity not just to get by, but to get ahead. And she has a record of
delivering on that belief. Her Child Tax Credit made a permanent reform to treat Puerto Rico
Child Tax Credit unless they had three or more children.146 Vice President Harris delivered
infrastructure projects getting underway across the island.147 Puerto Rican unemployment
has reached record lows with more than 100,000 new jobs created.148
and Tribal Communities. That’s why she worked to make sure the American Rescue Plan
investments in tribal infrastructure.149 If elected, Vice President Harris will be a president for
all people, regardless of whom they vote for. In fact, Republican-leaning communities have
Inflation Reduction Act, and the CHIPS and Science Act. For instance, roughly 80 percent of
single congressional Republican opposed the law.150 This includes the single largest such
investment from the law that has been announced—$13.9 billion for a battery manufacturing
factory in North Carolina that is expected to produce over 5,000 full-time jobs. Moreover, of
are in Republican-represented districts.151 For example, in Marshall County, Mississippi, a new
of the county.152 Vice President Harris will empower rural communities to
and underserved communities. Vice President Harris will
are essential to the success and character of our nation.
have been overlooked and deprioritized. Essential services
financing to small businesses.161
made it more difficult to build a nest egg for the future. communities access capital and grow. She worked to align
in communities of color and other underserved areas.162
and farm workers. In the Senate, the Vice President advocated
investments continue.
provisions.155 She is also helping increase funding for rural
health care infrastructure.156 Vice President Harris is also but to promote access to economic opportunity for them
overseeing significant investments in agricultural programs where they live. Under her leadership, 2023 saw the lowest
backgrounds.157 of veterans in their homes, and worked to expand economic
opportunity for veterans.163
agenda. One analysis found that rural communities stand this commitment, with a focus on lowering costs,
more than $450 billion—provided across the Bipartisan all across America.
Reduction Act. According to another analysis, almost 30
rural share of the U.S. population.159
communities’ access to federal funds. The Harris-Walz
access resources from the federal government.160 This will
$12.7 billion
$8.8 billion
$13.2 billion
$8.4 billion
$9.8 billion
NOTE Data reflect investments announced between August 16, 2022, and March 31, 2024.
Nilsen, E. & Rigdon R. “The biggest winners of Biden’s green climate policies? Republicans.” CNN.
June 16, 2024. https://www.cnn.com/2024/06/16/climate/clean-energy-investment-republicans/index.html.
benefits they have earned.
benefits that seniors have earned. They will strengthen deep cuts in the pensions of up to three million
and protect Social Security and Medicare, upholding our retirees and workers. Vice President Harris cast
country’s promise to its seniors. And they will continue to the tie-breaking vote for the Butch Lewis Act, the
that every American has the right to retire with dignity. of our nation’s multiemployer pensions in 50 years—
and Medicare. They will shore up Social Security and
to save these pensions “a bailout.”164 Already, the Butch
wealthiest Americans pay their fair share in taxes.
prescription drugs for all Americans. Vice
prior to the passage of the Butch Lewis Act. When
union members.
threatening Medicare and Social Security. In one of his
seniors. The Vice President will defend these landmark
demands for decades. And he called Social Security a “Ponzi
scheme.”165 He has recently said that there was “a lot you
can do ... in terms of cutting” Social Security and Medicare.
Medicare from negotiating lower prices. In fact, as
to cover more drugs and lower prices faster and extend that would defund Social Security. Experts describe his plan
cap on prescription drugs to all Americans. would reduce the solvency of the program.166
hard-earned benefits. The House Republican Study
programs solvent.
middle-class Americans. Vice President Harris
responsibility. Under their plan, the super-
share, and the middle class will get a tax cut.
encourages entrepreneurship and long-term investment. They will lower taxes for the middle
sure the wealthiest Americans are paying their fair share. They are also committed to fiscal
and reducing the deficit at the same time. That is why they are committed to raising revenue
• Making the wealthiest Americans play by the same rules as the middle class.
the deficit. They should not be able to pay an effective tax rate lower than a teacher
or firefighter. Vice President Harris and Governor Walz support establishing a minimum
cans and implement commonsense tax reforms for corporations and the very wealthy.
reduce the deficit.
• Supporting fair, commonsense tax policies for American business. They want to
presidency, the effective tax rates for large U.S. companies sank below 10 percent.169
investment in the United States.170 In fact, some companies moved jobs and profits
overseas. Vice President Harris and Governor Walz’s plan will raise the corporate tax
cuts under both Democratic and Republican presidents.171 And their plan will reform
shifting jobs and profits overseas. Vice President Harris and Governor Walz’s plan will
invest in growth and productivity.
encouraging innovation and investment. Under the deficit, putting Social Security and Medicare on the
their plan, 99 percent of Americans—including all chopping block. The Penn Wharton Budget Model found
same tax rate on long-term capital gains as they do primary deficits by $5.8 trillion over the next 10 years.176
now. Americans earning below about $100,000 will A survey of 40 top economists by the Financial Times and
For Americans who earn $1 million a year or more, the deficit than Harris.177
typical American family nearly $4,000 per year.179 At the
Year 2025 budget. In their view, this approach strikes
the right balance.
final year in office, 55 of the largest U.S. companies that
instead received billions in tax rebates.172 One study found
further, and giving billionaires another tax break of $3.5
$1.5 trillion windfall.175
has always been critical to America’s success. Building that mid-
dle class will be a defining goal of their Administration. They will
to compete and the chance to succeed. And they will bring down
every American has the opportunity to not just get by, but get ahead.
himself and his billionaire friends. He will give them another round
of tax breaks that will add trillions to the national debt. All the
$4,000 a year.
the middle class is where they came from. And the middle class is
who they are fighting for. They are running a campaign on behalf of
Americans. Together, they will fight for the promise of our future:
a promise of freedom and opportunity not just for some but for all.
