 “As President, I will set a national goal of ensuring that America has the No. 1 lowest cost of energy of any industrial country anywhere on Earth," President Trump said. "We will not only match China we will be cheaper than China by a lot. And more energy will mean lower inflation that will mean more jobs."  
 President Trump will once again exit the horrendously unfair Paris Climate Accords and oppose all of the radical left’s Green New Deal policies that are designed to shut down the development of America’s abundant energy resources, which exceed any country’s in the world, including Russia and Saudi Arabia.  
 Because EVs cost an average of TWICE as much as gas-powered vehicles, take longer to fully charge, and have shorter ranges, almost two-thirds of Americans prefer their next car purchase to be a gas-powered vehicle, nearly half of all car dealerships would never sell an EV, and about half of current EV owners plan to switch back to a gas-powered car.  
 President Trump helped finance the construction of Units 3 and 4 at Plant Vogtle in Georgia, the first new nuclear reactors to begin construction in the United States in more than 30 years, which will create 800 permanent jobs, provide electricity to 1.6 million American homes, and avoid 10 million metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions annually.  
 If America is going to dominate the world in manufacturing once again as it did when I was running things -- you remember when they used to say you can't have manufacturing jobs in our country anymore. I said really? Why? And we created hundreds of thousands of them -- we must be the most affordable energy and electricity place anywhere on the planet.  
 We have to have affordable energy. Right now we have energy that's weak, substandard, and unaffordable. It's made by the wind. The windmills rust. They rot. They kill the birds. It's the most expensive energy there is. And we have other things that are also no good. It’s called the Green New Deal -- I call it the Green New Hoax.  
 We were energy independent just three years ago. And now we're begging Venezuela for their oil. And yet we have many times more than any other country. There is no country -- Saudi Arabia, Russia, nobody -- no country has what we have. We will develop the liquid gold that is right under our feet, including American oil and natural gas and we will also embrace nuclear, clean coal, hydropower, which is fantastic, and every other form of affordable energy to get it done.  
 In the future, every manufacturing plant, every data center, every semiconductor facility and assembly line will want to be built in America. They're all going to want to be in America. Because we're going to have the lowest cost of energy. It's a big factor. This will be the place where the cost of energy is lower than anyplace else on Earth, where the economy is stronger than anyplace else on Earth, and where the workers are the best, brightest and most talented anywhere in the world.  