 8. Direct the Department of Education to inform states and school districts that if any teacher or school official suggests to a child that they could be trapped in the wrong body, they will be faced with severe consequences , including, potential Civil Rights violations for sex discrimination, and the elimination of federal funding .  
 I will sign a new executive order instructing every federal agency to cease all programs that promote the concept of sex and gender transition at any age. I will then ask Congress to permanently stop federal taxpayer dollars from being used to promote or pay for these procedures, and pass a law prohibiting child sexual mutilation in all 50 states. It’ll go very quickly.  
 The Department of Justice will investigate Big Pharma and the big hospital networks to determine whether they have deliberately covered up horrific long-term side- effects of “sex transitions” in order to get rich at the expense of vulnerable patients. In this case, very vulnerable. We will also investigate whether Big Pharma or others have illegally marketed hormones and puberty blockers, which are in no way licensed or approved for this use.  
 My Department of Education will inform states and school districts that if any teacher or school official suggests to a child that they could be trapped in the wrong body, they will be faced with severe consequences, including potential Civil Rights violations for sex discrimination, and the elimination of federal funding.  
 I will ask Congress to pass a bill establishing that the only genders recognized by the United States government are male and female—and they are assigned at birth. The bill will also make clear that Title Nine prohibits men from participating in women’s sports. And we will protect the rights of parents from being forced to allow their minor child to assume a gender, which is new, and an identity without the parents’ consent. The identity will not be new. And it will not be without parental consent.  