 President Trump supports the right of parents to know what their children are being taught in the classroom, to be able to openly communicate any of their concerns with teachers and principals, to protect the privacy of their children, to be made aware of changing academic standards, to be updated on any acts of violence occurring at school, to inspect professional development materials, to be notified before an out-of-school guest speaks in class or at a school event, to review the budget and spending of their children’s school, to know if a school employee is working to address bullying or mental health concerns (including drug use or weapon use), to consent to all student surveys related to health, to have the right to opt out of school healthcare services, and to be immediately notified if a teacher or other school employee has worked to change their children’s name, pronouns, or understanding of his or her gender.  
 President Trump will also inform states and school districts that if any teacher or school official suggests to a child that they could be trapped in the wrong body, they will be faced with severe consequences—including potential civil rights violations for sex discrimination and the elimination of federal funding.  
 A 2022 study from the University of North Carolina School of Education found that efforts to “recruit and retain high-performing principals are likely to have large payoffs.” A study by the National Association of Secondary School Principals showed that school leadership is “second only to classroom instruction as an influence on student learning”—or as another study from Stronge & Associates Educational Consulting put it , “There is no high-performing school without an effective principal… Principal leadership matters. And it matters substantially.”  
 To reward good teachers, President Trump will implement funding preferences and favorable treatment for states and school districts that abolish teacher tenure for grades K-12, adopt Merit Pay to reward good teachers, and give parents the right to vote for the principals who direct their children’s education.  
 President Trump will get Critical Race Theory, transgender ideology, and left-wing indoctrination OUT of our schools—and he will get reading, writing, and arithmetic back IN, so that America’s young people have the knowledge, skills, and training they need to get a great job and lead a successful career.  
 Just as he did during his first term, President Trump will fight for patriotic education in America’s schools. Notwithstanding that America’s founding principles of liberty and equality have successfully guided the United States throughout the most difficult periods in its history—including the long struggle to abolish slavery, our victories over fascism and communism, the advancement of civil rights for all, and the expansion of material prosperity to more people of every background in a remarkably short period of time—decades of poor scholarship have vilified our Founders and the principles that they championed and have taught many of our young people to hate their own country.  
 But as America’s history has shown, the path to a restored and strengthened unity can be found through the rediscovery of a shared national identity rooted in our Founding principles and an appreciation of our wonderful American heroes. President Trump will ensure our children know the truth about the American Founding, learn the stories of our remarkable heroes, discover the glories of Western Civilization, and come to appreciate the United States as the freest, most prosperous, and most virtuous nation in the history of the world.  
 Just as he did during his first term, President Trump will ensure that to receive federal funds, local educational agencies must confirm that their policies do not prevent or interfere with constitutionally protected rights. President Trump’s guidance streamlined students’ ability to file a complaint if their rights were being violated and guaranteed that students could read religious texts or pray during recess and other non-instructional periods.  
 Greatness in the classroom requires safety in the classroom. To that end, President Trump will completely overhaul federal standards on school discipline to get out-of-control troublemakers OUT of the classroom and INTO reform schools and corrections facilities, for the good of themselves and their peers alike. This will include supporting immediate expulsion for any student who harms a teacher or another student.  
 President Trump will end the leftist takeover of school discipline and the juvenile system. He will order the Departments of Justice and Education to overhaul federal standards on disciplining minors to get violent thugs out of our children’s classrooms so they can get the professional help they need. When troubled youth are out of control, the consequences must be “swift, certain, and strong.”  
 To further harden our schools against harm from outside intruders, President Trump will support federal funding to hire veterans, retired police officers, and other trained gunowners as armed guards in our nation’s schools—a measure that will help deter unhinged maniacs and keep our nation’s children out of harm’s way.  
 As he previously announced, President Trump will direct the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to convene an independent outside panel to investigate whether transgender hormone treatments and ideology increase the risk of extreme depression, aggression, and violence. He will also look at whether common psychiatric drugs, as well as genetically engineered cannabis and other narcotics, are causing psychotic breaks.  
 America’s students are more successful, more engaged, and more prepared for real-world experience when their education involves hands-on projects that aim to approximate what real-world work situations will demand of them. President Trump will support project-based learning inside the classroom to help train students for fulfilling work outside the classroom.  
 Harvard University’s Graduate School of Education defines project-based learning as a way to “develop deep conceptual understanding of abstract concepts” by seeing how those concepts “actually operate in the real world”—because in order to be successful, “students need to do more than just read textbooks or listen in lecture halls.”  
 For many students, the path to a great job is a great internship or part-time work. For that reason, President Trump will implement funding preferences for schools that actively work to help students secure internships, part-time work, and summer jobs that will set them on the path to long and fulfilling careers.  
 According to a report published by MDRC, “a long-term study of high school career academies, which combined technicalcareer education with an academic curriculum and provided some students with internships with local employers, found that these programs had large, positive impacts on students’ labor market outcomes eight years later.”  
 Another education model that prioritizes meaningful work experience is Cristo Rey , a Catholic school network that “ delivers a career focused, college preparatory education in the Catholic tradition for students with limited economic resources, uniquely integrating rigorous academic curricula with four years of professional work experience and support to and through college.” As education policy analyst and former senior Manhattan Institute fellow Charles Upton Sahm observed of the Cristo Rey model’s work-study program, it “operates, in essence, like a small employment agency”—with firms contracting with Cristo Rey to staff entry-level jobs with each student working five days a month in addition to their schoolwork. The program, Sahm wrote, “helps students build impressive credentials and contacts” as well as develop their “confidence and self-worth.”  
 According to the National Career Development Association (NCDA), school counselors can play a vital role in “helping students identify their life’s purpose.” Having a purpose, NCDA finds, “can be highly motivating and encourage students to develop skills and persistence towards meaningful education, life, and career goals.”  
 The American School Counselor Association School found that high school and college “counselors improve their service to their students when they understand [career technical education (CTE)] offers numerous benefits, including rigorous programs of study, academic and CTE curriculum and productive relationships within the business community. These advantages serve as effective means that school counselors can use to help all students make informed career decisions.”  
 The Trump administration restored state and local control of education by faithfully implementing the Every Student Succeeds Act, which prohibits the U.S. Department of Education from “attempting to influence, incentivize, or coerce a state to adopt the Common Core State Standards or any other academic standards common to a significant number of states.”  
 In 2020, President Trump created the 1776 Commission to “better enable a rising generation to understand the history and principles of the founding of the United States in 1776, and, through this, form a more perfect Union.” And in January 2021, the Commission released the “ 1776 Report ,” which calls for the nation to “renew the pride and gratitude we have for this incredible nation that we are blessed to call home” and concludes by noting that “[w]hen we appreciate America for what she truly is, we know that our Declaration is worth preserving, our Constitution worth defending, our fellow citizens worth loving, and our country worth fighting for.”  
 President Trump signed an executive order ensuring that public universities protect First Amendment rights or lose funding, addressing student debt by requiring colleges to share a portion of the financial risk, and increasing transparency by requiring universities to disclose information about the value of potential educational programs.  
 The United States spends more money on education than any other country in the world. And yet, we get the worst outcomes. We are at the bottom of every list. In total, American society pours more than a trillion dollars a year into public education systems. But instead of being at the top of the list, we are literally right smack -- guess what? -- at the bottom.  
 Rather than indoctrinating young people with inappropriate racial, sexual, and political material, which is what we're doing now, our schools must be totally refocused to prepare our children to succeed in the world of work, and in life and the world of keeping our country strong, so they can grow up to be happy, prosperous, and independent citizens.  
 Ninth, we will strive to give all students access to internships and work experiences that can set them on a path to their first job. They are going to be very, very successful. I want them to be more successful than Trump. Let them go out and be more successful. I will be the happiest person in the world. But we want our children to have a great life and be successful.  
 And one other thing I'll be doing very early in the administration is closing up the Department of Education in Washington D.C. and sending all education and education work and needs back to the States. We want them to run the education of our children, because they'll do a much better job of it. You can't do worse. We spend more money per pupil, by three times, than any other nation. And yet we're absolutely at the bottom. We're one of the worst. So you can't do worse. We're going to end education coming out of Washington D.C. We're going to close it up -- all those buildings all over the place and yet people that in many cases hate our children. We're going to send it all back to the States.  