 “Three years from now, the United States will celebrate the biggest and most important milestone in our country’s history -- 250 years of American Independence,” President Trump said. “That’s why as a nation, we should be preparing for the most spectacular birthday party. We want to make it the best of all time.”  
 OFFERING AN INSPIRING AND UNIFYING VISION OF A SUCCESSFUL AMERICAN FUTURE: This plan builds on President Trump’s longstanding commitment to honor our nation’s 250th anniversary and offers Americans from every state in the Union the chance to come together and share innovative visions for a successful American future:  
 - In his 2020 “Salute to America” Independence Day remarks , President Trump stated, “Two hundred and forty-four years ago in Philadelphia, the 56 signers of our Declaration of Independence pledged their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor to boldly proclaim this eternal truth: that we are all made equal by God.”  
 - In his remarks at Mount Rushmore on July 3, 2020, President Trump noted, "Our Founders launched not only a revolution in government, but a revolution in the pursuit of justice, equality, liberty, and prosperity… It was all made possible by the courage of 56 patriots who gathered in Philadelphia 244 years ago and signed the Declaration of Independence. They enshrined a divine truth that changed the world forever when they said: '…all men are created equal.'"  
 Three years from now, the United States will celebrate the biggest and most important milestone in our country’s history -- 250 years of American Independence. What a great country. We have to keep it that way. But that’s why as a nation, we should be preparing for the most spectacular birthday party. We want to make it the best of all time. Here is my plan to give America’s founding in 1776 the incredible anniversary it truly deserves.  
 On Day One, I will convene a White House task force called “Salute to America 250”. It will be responsible for coordinating with state and local governments to ensure not just one day of celebration, but an entire year of festivities across the nation starting on Memorial Day 2025 and continuing through July 4th, 2026.  
 Second, I will work with all 50 Governors, Republican and Democrat alike, to create the Great American State Fair, a unique one-year exhibition featuring pavilions from all fifty states. It’ll be something. The Great American State Fair will showcase the glory of every state in the Union, promote pride in our history, and put forth innovative visions for America’s future.  
 Third, alongside the Great American State Fair, we will host major sporting contests for high school athletes. These are great athletes, wonderful athletes from fantastic high schools all around the country. These Patriot Games will allow young Americans from every state to show off the best of American skill, sportsmanship, and competitive spirit.  
 And finally, and most importantly, I ask America’s great religious communities to pray for our nation and our people as we prepare for this momentous occasion. From the very beginning, America has been a country sustained and strengthened by prayer and by our communities of faith. As we chart a course toward the next 250 years, let us come together and rededicate ourselves as one nation under God.  