 “Under my leadership, we did more than any administration in history to combat human trafficking and to end modern day slavery,” President Trump said. “In one of my first acts in office, I signed an executive order targeting transnational criminal organizations that traffic and exploit innocent people. I signed the Frederick Douglass Trafficking Victims Prevention and Protection Reauthorization Act, authorizing $430 million to fight sex and labor trafficking.”  
 Sound of Freedom  grossed $41.7 million in the first week of its release and opened at No. 1 in Texas, Florida, and Arizona theaters. The feature has taken the nation by storm, beating out Disney’s Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny in July 4th movie ticket sales despite appearing in far fewer theaters, securing the top position in the box office for the day. The film which is being distributed by Angel Studios, was produced by Mexican filmmaker Eduardo Verástegui and stars Jim Caviezel.  
 Verástegui who was previously appointed a member of President Trump’s Advisory Commission on Hispanic Prosperity and who has continuously advocated for a strong and vital bilateral relationship between the U.S. and Mexico, emphasized the importance of coming together as a society to address this pernicious evil and eradicate child trafficking.  
 I was thrilled to host a screening at Bedminster of the important new film, Sound of Freedom about the power of faith in overcoming evil and in particular, the evil of child trafficking. Big problem. We had it down to the lowest number in many years, just four years ago, and now it's gone through the roof. Even though the fake news media has tried to ignore it.  
 Sound of Freedom has been a national sensation and a colossal success at the box office, really big numbers, everyone should see it. This is a very important film and very important movie and it's a very important documentary all wrapped up in one. It's really about an issue that has to be discussed.  
 Under my leadership, we did more than any administration in history to combat human trafficking and to end modern day slavery. In one of my first acts in office, I signed an executive order targeting transnational criminal organizations that traffic and exploit innocent people. I signed the Frederick Douglass Trafficking Victims Prevention and Protection Reauthorization Act, authorizing $430 million to fight sex and labor trafficking.  
 I signed legislation to crack down on foreign countries who are not meeting standards for eliminating trafficking, of which there are many. I also signed into law the abolish Human Trafficking Act, which strengthened programs supporting survivors and provided more resources for ending modern slavery.  
 We do have modern slavery, if you can believe it. Additionally, I created the first ever White House position focused solely on combating human trafficking and perhaps most importantly, we created the most secure border in US history by far, dealing a major blow to the cartels and traffickers. We built hundreds of miles of wall. We renovated hundreds of miles of wall. We never had anything like it, and then I got Mexico free of charge, to give us 28,000 soldiers to protect us from people coming into our country illegally.  
 I will use Title 42 to end the child trafficking crisis by returning all trafficked children to their families in their home countries and without delay, and I will urge Congress to ensure that anyone caught trafficking children across our border receives the death penalty immediately and that includes also for women, because women as you know are number one in trafficking. Children are actually number two.  