 President Trump unveiled his new Quantum Leap plan that will create a new American future and modernize communities across the country. By building new cities, investing in transportation, lowering the cost of living for everyone, and modernizing public spaces across the country, President Trump has laid out a bold strategy to revolutionize the American Standard of Living.  
 “Past generations of Americans pursued big dreams and daring projects that once seemed absolutely impossible,” President Trump said. “Today, our country has lost its boldness. Under my leadership, we will get it back in a very big way. Our objective will be a quantum leap in the American Standard of Living.”  
 In addition to universal baseline tariffs on most foreign goods, President Trump's Strategic National Manufacturing Initiative will reclaim our economic independence from China. President Trump will revoke China’s Most Favored Nation trade status and adopt a 4-year plan to phase out all Chinese imports of essential goods—everything from electronics to steel to pharmaceuticals – bringing many of those jobs back home.  
 Past generations of Americans pursued big dreams and daring projects that once seemed absolutely impossible. They pushed across an unsettled continent and built new cities in the wild frontier. They transformed American life with the interstate highway system—magnificent it was. And they launched a vast network of satellites into orbit all around the earth.  
 Almost one third of the land-mass of the United States is owned by the federal government. With just a very, very small portion of that land— just a fraction [of] one half of one percent—would you believe that? We should hold a contest to charter up to 10 new cities and award them to the best proposals for development.  
 In other words, we’ll actually build new cities in our country again. These Freedom Cities will reopen the frontier, reignite American imagination, and give hundreds of thousands of young people and other people, all hardworking families, a new shot at home ownership and in fact, the American Dream.  
 Another big opportunity is in transportation. Dozens of major companies in the U.S. and China are racing to develop vertical-takeoff-and-landing vehicles for families and individuals. Just as the United States led the automotive revolution in the last century, I want to ensure that America, not China, leads this revolution in air mobility. These breakthroughs can transform commerce, bring a giant infusion of wealth into RURAL America, and connect families and our country in new ways.  
 Finally, I will challenge the governors of all 50 states to join me in a great modernization and beautification campaign—getting rid of ugly buildings, refurbishing our parks and our public spaces, making cities and towns more livable, ensuring a pristine environment, and building towering monuments to our true American heroes.  