     
 A NEW WAY FORWARD  
 Vice President Harris and Governor Walz are fighting for a New Way Forward that protects our fundamental freedoms, strengthens our democracy, and ensures every person has the opportunity to not just get by, but to get ahead. As a prosecutor, Attorney General, Senator, and now Vice President of the United States, Kamala Harris always stood up for the people against predators, scammers, and powerful interests. She promises to be a president for all Americans, a president who unites us around our highest aspirations, and a president who always fights for the American people. From the courthouse to the White House, that has been her life’s work.         
 BUILD AN OPPORTUNITY ECONOMY AND LOWER COSTS FOR FAMILIES  
 Vice President Harris grew up in a middle class home as the daughter of a working mom. She believes that when the middle class is strong, America is strong. That’s why as President, Kamala Harris will create an Opportunity Economy where everyone has a chance to compete and a chance to succeed — whether they live in a rural area, small town, or big city.  
 Vice President Kamala Harris has made clear that building up the middle class will be a defining goal of her presidency. That’s why she will make it a top priority to bring down costs and increase economic security for all Americans. As President, she will fight to cut taxes for more than 100 million working and middle class Americans while lowering the costs of everyday needs like health care, housing, and groceries. She will bring together organized labor and workers, small business owners, entrepreneurs, and American companies to create good paying jobs, grow the economy, and ensure that America continues to lead the world.  
 Read Vice President Kamala Harris’ New Way Forward for the Middle Class plan in its entirety.    Cut Taxes for Middle Class Families  
 Vice President Harris and Governor Walz believe that working families deserve a break. That’s why under their plan more than 100 million working and middle-class Americans will get a tax cut. They will do this by restoring two tax cuts designed to help middle class and working Americans: the Child Tax Credit and the Earned Income Tax Credit. Through these two programs, millions of Americans get to keep more of their hard-earned income. They will also expand the Child Tax Credit to provide a $6,000 tax cut to families with newborn children. They believe no child in America should live in poverty, and these actions would have a historic impact.  
 Vice President Harris has always stood up for renters and homeowners — as Attorney General of California, she took on the big banks to deliver $20 billion for middle-class families who faced foreclosure and helped pass a homeowner bill of rights, one of the first of its kind in the nation.  
 Vice President Harris knows that a home is more than a house — it represents financial security and an opportunity to build intergenerational wealth. But for too many Americans, homeownership is too far out of reach. Vice President Harris has put forward a comprehensive plan to build three million more rental units and homes that are affordable to end the national housing supply crisis in her first term. And she will cut red tape to make sure we build more housing faster and penalize firms that hoard available homes to drive up prices for local homebuyers.  Vice President Harris knows rent is too high and will sign legislation to outlaw new forms of price fixing by corporate landlords.  
 As more new homes are built and affordable housing supply increases, Vice President Harris will provide first-time homebuyers with up to $25,000 to help with their down payments, with more generous support for first-generation homeowners. This will help more Americans experience the pride of homeownership and the financial security that it represents and brings — offering more Americans a path to the middle class and economic opportunity.   Grow Small Businesses and Invest in Entrepreneurs  
 Vice President Harris and Governor Walz know that small businesses — neighborhood shops, high-tech startups, small manufacturers, and more — are the engines of our economy. Just as she did as Senator and Vice President, Kamala Harris will always support small businesses and invest in entrepreneurs as president.  
 She has led the Biden-Harris Administration’s efforts to increase access to capital for small businesses and bring venture capital to parts of middle America that have for too long been overlooked, driving a record 19 million new business applications, tripling the Small Business Administration’s lending to Black-owned businesses, and more than doubling small-dollar lending to Latino and women-owned businesses. She has also championed expanding federal contracts for minority-owned small businesses.  
 As Attorney General of California, Kamala Harris took on the big banks to deliver for homeowners, stood up for veterans and students being scammed by for-profit colleges, and fought for workers and seniors who were defrauded.  
 As President, she will direct her Administration to crack down on anti-competitive practices that let big corporations jack up prices and undermine the competition that allows all businesses to thrive while keeping prices low for consumers. And she will go after bad actors who exploit an emergency to rip off consumers by calling for the first-ever federal ban on corporate price gouging on food and groceries, which will build on the anti-price gouging statutes already in place in 37 states.  
 Just as she did as Vice President, she will take on Big Pharma to lower drug prices and cap insulin costs, not just for seniors but for all Americans. And she’ll keep fighting to bring down prescription drug costs by taking on pharmacy middlemen, who raise consumers’ prices for their own gain and squeeze independent pharmacies’ profits.   Strengthen and Bring Down the Cost of Health Care  
 Vice President Harris will make affordable health care a right, not a privilege by expanding and strengthening the Affordable Care Act and making permanent the Biden-Harris tax credit enhancements that are lowering health care premiums by an average of about $800 a year for millions of Americans. She’ll build on the Biden-Harris Administration’s successes in bringing down the cost of lifesaving prescription drugs for Medicare beneficiaries by extending the $35 cap on insulin and $2,000 cap on out-of-pocket spending for seniors to all Americans. Her tie-breaking vote on the Inflation Reduction Act gave Medicare the power to go toe to toe with Big Pharma and negotiate lower drug prices. As President, she’ll accelerate the negotiations to cover more drugs and lower prices for Americans. As Vice President, she also announced that medical debt will be removed from credit reports, and helped cancel $7 billion of medical debt for 3 million Americans. As President, she’ll work with states to cancel medical debt for even more Americans.  
 And Vice President Harris has led the Administration’s efforts to combat maternal mortality. Women nationwide are dying from childbirth at higher rates than in any other developed nation. The Vice President called on states to extend Medicaid postpartum coverage from two months to twelve: today, 46 states do so — up from just three near the Administration’s start.   Protect and Strengthen Social Security and Medicare  
 As President, Kamala Harris will build on this Administration’s progress to ensure American industries and workers thrive. Vice President Harris will continue to support American leadership in semiconductors, clean energy, AI, and other cutting edge industries of the future. She’ll also fight for unions, because as Vice President of the most pro-labor administration in history, she knows that unions are the backbone of the middle class. She’ll sign landmark pro-union legislation, including the PRO Act to support workers who choose to organize and bargain and the Public Service Freedom to Negotiate Act to make the freedom for public service workers to form unions the law of the land. During her leadership as Vice President, unions representing those from auto workers to truck drivers to care workers won record wage increases amidst record job creation with clear support for the right to collectively bargain from the White House. Vice President Harris will not tolerate unfair trade practices from China or any competitor that undermines American workers.  
 She’ll fight to raise the minimum wage, end sub-minimum wages for tipped workers and people with disabilities, establish paid family and medical leave, and eliminate taxes on tips for service and hospitality workers.   Provide a Pathway to the Middle Class Through Quality, Affordable Education  
 Vice President Harris will fight to ensure parents can afford high-quality child care and preschool for their children. She will strengthen public education and training as a pathway to the middle class. And she’ll continue working to end the unreasonable burden of student loan debt and fight to make higher education more affordable, so that college can be a ticket to the middle class. To date, Vice President Harris has helped deliver the largest investment in public education in American history, provide nearly $170 billion in student debt relief for almost five million borrowers, and deliver record investments in HBCUs, Tribal Colleges, Hispanic-Serving Institutions, and other minority-serving institutions. She helped more students afford college by increasing the maximum Pell Grant award by $900 — the largest increase in more than a decade — and invested in community colleges. She has implemented policies that have led to over one million registered apprentices being hired, and she will do even more to scale up programs that create good career pathways for non-college graduates.   Invest in Affordable Child Care and Long Term Care  
 Vice President Harris cast the deciding vote on the American Rescue Plan, which made historic investments in the care economy. As President, she will fight to lower care costs for American families, including by expanding high-quality home care services for seniors and people with disabilities and ensuring hardworking families can afford high-quality child care, all while ensuring that care workers are paid a living wage and treated with the dignity and respect they deserve.   Lower Energy Costs and Tackle the Climate Crisis  
  
 SAFEGUARD OUR FUNDAMENTAL FREEDOMS   
 Vice President Harris’ fight for our future is also a fight for freedom. In this election, many fundamental freedoms are at stake: the freedom to make your own decisions about your own body without government interference; the freedom to love who you love openly and with pride; and the freedom that unlocks all the others: the freedom to vote.    Restore and Protect Reproductive Freedoms  
 Vice President Harris and Governor Walz trust women to make decisions about their own bodies, and not have the government tell them what to do.  
  
 ENSURE SAFETY AND JUSTICE FOR ALL   
 As a prosecutor, district attorney, and attorney general, Kamala Harris has fought to ensure everyone has the right to safety, to dignity, and to justice. Everyone should have the freedom to live in safe communities — that’s why Vice President Harris is fighting to keep our communities safe from gun violence and crime, secure our borders and fix our broken immigration system, tackle the opioid and fentanyl crisis, and ensure no one is above the law — including the president.    Make Our Communities Safer From Gun Violence and Crime  
 As a prosecutor, Vice President Harris fought violent crime by getting illegal guns and violent criminals off California streets. During her time as District Attorney, she raised conviction rates for violent offenders — including gang members, gun felons, and domestic abusers. As Attorney General, Vice President Harris built on this record, removing over 12,000 illegal guns from the streets of California and prosecuting some of the toughest transnational criminal organizations in the world.  
 In the White House, Vice President Harris helped deliver the largest investment in public safety ever, investing $15 billion in supporting local law enforcement and community safety programs across 1,000 cities, towns, and counties. President Biden and Vice President Harris encouraged bipartisan cooperation to pass the first major gun safety law in nearly 30 years, which included record funding to hire and train over 14,000 mental health professionals for our schools. As head of the first-ever White House Office of Gun Violence Prevention, she spearheaded policies to expand background checks and close the gun show loophole. Under her and President Biden’s leadership, violent crime is at a 50-year low, with the largest single-year drop in murders ever.  
 As President, she won’t stop fighting so that Americans have the freedom to live safe from gun violence in our schools, communities, and places of worship. She’ll ban assault weapons and high-capacity magazines, require universal background checks, and support red flag laws that keep guns out of the hands of dangerous people. She will also continue to invest in funding law enforcement, including the hiring and training of officers and people to support them, and will build upon proven gun violence prevention programs that have helped reduce violent crime throughout the country.   Secure Our Borders and Fix Our Broken Immigration System  
 Vice President Harris is committed to ending the opioid epidemic and tackling the scourge of fentanyl. She’s seen the devastating impact of fentanyl on families up close — she has met and mourned with those who have lost loved ones to fentanyl overdoses. As Attorney General, she prosecuted drug traffickers, seizing over 10,000 kilos of cocaine and 12,000 pounds of methamphetamine. In the White House, she helped direct more than $150 billion to disrupt the flow of illicit drugs and delivered billions of dollars in investments to states to fund lifesaving programs. Under the Biden-Harris Administration, the FDA made the overdose-reversal drug naloxone available over-the-counter. This past year, the number of overdose deaths in the United States declined for the first time in five years. As President, she will sign the bipartisan border bill that will fund detection technology to intercept even more illicit drugs and she’ll keep fighting to end the opioid epidemic.   Ensure No One Is Above the Law  
  
 KEEP AMERICA SAFE, SECURE, AND PROSPEROUS  
 Vice President Harris will never waver in defense of America’s security and ideals. As Vice President, she has confronted threats to our security, negotiated with foreign leaders, strengthened our alliances, and engaged with our brave troops overseas. As Commander In Chief, she will ensure that the United States military remains the strongest, most lethal fighting force in the world, that we unleash the power of American innovation and win the competition for the 21st century, and that we strengthen, not abdicate, our global leadership. And Vice President Harris will fulfill our sacred obligation to care for our troops and their families, and will always honor their service and their sacrifice.    Stand With Our Allies, Stand Up to Dictators, and Lead on the World Stage  
 Vice President Harris is ready to be Commander in Chief on day one. She has helped restore American leadership on the world stage, strengthened our national security through her travels to 21 countries and meetings with more than 150 world leaders, defended American values and democracy, and advanced America’s interests.  
 Vice President Harris has been a tireless and effective diplomat on the world stage. She has met with China’s Xi Jinping, making clear she will always stand up for American interests in the face of China’s threats, and traveled to the Indo-Pacific four times to advance our economic and security partnerships. She visited the Korean Demilitarized Zone to affirm our unwavering commitment to South Korea in the face of North Korean threats. Five days before Russia attacked Ukraine, she met with President Zelenskyy to warn him about Russia’s plan to invade and helped mobilize a global response of more than 50 countries to help Ukraine defend itself against Vladimir Putin’s brutal aggression. And she has worked with our allies to ensure NATO is stronger than ever.  
 Vice President Harris will never hesitate to take whatever action is necessary to protect U.S. forces and interests from Iran and Iran-backed terrorist groups. Vice President Harris will always stand up for Israel’s right to defend itself and she will always ensure Israel has the ability to defend itself. She and President Biden are working to end the war in Gaza, such that Israel is secure, the hostages are released, the suffering in Gaza ends, and the Palestinian people can realize their right to dignity, security, freedom, and self-determination. She and President Biden are working around the clock to get a hostage deal and a ceasefire deal done.  
 From advising on tough decisions in the Oval Office and the Situation Room, to serving on the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, to going after transnational criminal organizations as California’s Attorney General, Vice President Harris brings extensive national security experience — and it’s no surprise more than 350 foreign policy and national security experts have endorsed her.   Invest in America’s Sources of Strength  
 Vice President Harris will make sure that America, not China, wins the competition for the 21st century and that we strengthen, not abdicate, our global leadership. She will invest in the competitive advantages that make America the strongest nation on Earth — American workers, innovation, and industry — and will work to ensure America remains a leader in the industries of the future, from semiconductors to clean energy to artificial intelligence. She has stood up to China’s unfair economic practices to protect American workers, businesses, and families. And she has advanced our economic cooperation around the world, from rallying international leaders at an AI summit in the UK, to convening semiconductor business leaders in East Asia, to spurring private investment across Africa.   Support Service Members, Veterans, Their Families, Caregivers, and Survivors  
 Vice President Harris and Governor Walz believe we have a sacred obligation to care for our nation’s service members, veterans, their families, caregivers, and survivors. These Americans represent the bravest among us who have put their lives on the line to defend the promise of America, stand up for our values, and protect our fundamental freedoms. Vice President Harris and President Biden have delivered the most significant expansion of benefits and services for veterans exposed to burn pits, Agent Orange, and other toxic substances in more than 30 years. The son of an Army veteran who served as a command sergeant major, Governor Walz was the ranking member on the House Veterans Affairs Committee, where he passed legislation to help stem veterans’ suicides.  