ECONOMIC PROGRESS  
 At the start of the Biden-Harris Administration, in the midst of the worst economic crisis in 100 years, experts feared a stagnating recovery and even worried about a new recession. But Democrats chose to put workers first, and instead of recession, America has seen remarkable strength and resilience. Our economy grew by 3.1 percent last year – the fastest rate of any major economy in the world.  
 While too many families still feel the pain of inflation at the grocery store, or around the kitchen table when they sit down to pay their bills, we're making progress. Wages are rising faster than prices, and inflation today is down nearly two-thirds from its peak. We have to finish the job. Democrats will keep fighting to prevent the kind of supply chain shocks and corporate greed that have done so much to raise prices. And we'll keep investing in American workers, American jobs, and American families, bringing factories home to win the race for the future. Democrats know the story of the middle class isn't separate from the state of the economy – it's at its heart. And we'll never quit fighting to make sure that everyone is in on the deal.  
 INVESTING IN AMERICA  
 Infrastructure  
 The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is breaking ground on over 57,000 projects across 4,500 communities nationwide. We're rebuilding major roadways, from the Blatnik Bridge, a vital link between Wisconsin and Minnesota that carries more $4 billion in goods a year through the largest Great Lakes port; to a key stretch of the I-10 outside Phoenix that sees 126,000 vehicles a day. We're making the biggest investment in public transit in history, and at last building America's first true high-speed rail lines. We're replacing every toxic lead pipe in the country within a decade, so every child can turn on the faucet at home or at school and drink clean water without risking cancer or brain damage. We've added over 80,000 megawatts of new clean power capacity, the equivalent of building 40 Hoover Dams, to help shrink energy costs and meet ambitious climate goals. And we're bringing affordable, reliable, high-speed internet to every American household. High-speed internet is as vital to our economy today as electricity first was a century ago; Americans need it to do their jobs, to do their homework, to access health care, and to stay connected. But a full 45 million of us still live in areas where there is no high-speed internet. Democrats are closing that divide. These projects don't just build infrastructure, they create hundreds of thousands of good jobs for American workers.  
 Manufacturing  
 Democrats are also taking historic steps to bring home critical supply chains, and to reaffirm our nation's leadership in cutting-edge industries that America in fact often pioneered. After the pandemic exposed our reliance on foreign-made semiconductors, we passed the CHIPS and Science Act, to restore America's role producing the tiny computer chips needed to make everything from cell phones to dishwashers to cars. And as the climate crisis makes the shift to clean energy more urgent, we passed the Inflation Reduction Act, making the world's biggest investment ever in building renewable energy, electric vehicles, and other green technologies here at home.  
 Under President Biden, we've also boosted funding for the kind of research and development that can seed economy-transforming breakthroughs, like the internet. In recent years, America became one of the world's only major countries to pull back on R&D investments; Democrats are changing that. President Biden for example launched the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health (ARPA-H) in 2022, to find game-changing medical cures and treatments and transform important areas of medicine. Under his leadership, we'll continue supporting NASA and America's presence on the International Space Station, and working to send Americans back to the moon and to Mars. Democrats will keep America at the forefront of scientific discovery and innovation, responsibly leading the way in the defining fields of the future, like AI, biotech, quantum computing, advanced materials, and more.  
 GOOD JOBS  
 President Biden believes that you shouldn't have to go to a four-year college to live a good, middle-class life. Democrats are working to make sure that every American can access these quality new jobs, where many people can earn over $100,000 a year. The American Rescue Plan supported more than 4,300 state- and local-government workforce development programs; while our Investing in American agenda is expanding job-training partnerships between high schools, community colleges, unions, and employers. We have a million trainees enrolled in registered apprenticeships today. Apprenticeships have long provided a reliable path to the middle class, empowering workers to earn while they learn, not only in traditional trades, but also in new cutting-edge industries. Extreme Republicans have proposed gutting funding for registered apprenticeships in this year's budget. We'll keep making historic investments in them to keep expanding opportunity, including by partnering directly with unions.  
 Democrats know that Wall Street didn't build America. The middle class built America – and unions built the middle class. President Biden and Vice President Harris are proud to lead the most pro-union Administration in history. President Biden named staunch labor allies and former union leaders to positions across the government, and empowered them to fight for good jobs and workers' rights. Biden is the first President to walk a picket line, joining UAW workers on strike in Detroit before they won historic wage increases last year. He knows that when unions win, all workers benefit; and as we rebuild our economy for the future, every worker needs a voice and a fair shot.  
 Democrats will keep fighting to pass the Protecting the Right to Organize (PRO) Act, to give everyone the right to organize for better pay, benefits, and working conditions, and to hold abusive bosses accountable for violating workers' rights. We oppose state right-to-work laws, which drive down wages and leave workers unsafe; and we support penalizing employers who engage in union busting. We'll work to pass the Public Service Freedom to Negotiate Act, guaranteeing public sector bargaining rights; and to codify a right to organize for domestic workers, farm workers, and other unprotected laborers. Democrats will continue to create strong labor standards for jobs created with taxpayer dollars through legislation and with strong Buy American rules. Consistent with the law, we will ensure that federal grants and other assistance to employers are contingent on recipients committing to not interfering with workers' efforts to form a union. By leveraging the benefits of federal grants for infrastructure, manufacturing and services, we will seek to ensure that all Americans have the opportunity to participate in the American Dream.  
 We'll strengthen enforcement and penalties for safety, wage, and other labor and employment violations. And, Democrats will continue to aggressively hold companies accountable for violating child labor law. We've increased funding for the Occupational Safety and Health Administration to protect workers on the job; and we'll continue to support workplace whistleblowers.  
 At the same time, we're pushing to guarantee workers the pay, benefits, and protections they deserve as well. We passed the Butch Lewis Act, keeping over 2 million people's hard-earned pensions solvent. We also raised the minimum wage for federal contractors to $17.20 an hour, and will keep pushing Congress to increase it to at least $15 for all Americans. We're making millions more hourly workers eligible for overtime pay; and we've cracked down on wage theft and exploitation, recovering over $750 million for low-wage workers wrongly denied pay. We're making it harder for employers to misclassify workers as independent contractors to avoid paying them full pay and benefits. We're banning most non-compete agreements, freeing workers to move between jobs and negotiate. And we've restricted mandatory arbitration, so fewer employers can silence wronged employees in a workplace dispute.  
 We also recognize that the U.S. Postal Service is the world's most efficient, and Democrats are wholly committed to supporting a public U.S.P.S. We will fight all efforts to privatize it and will work to ensure that it's financially sustainable. We will protect its universal service obligation and on-time delivery. And we will support a Board of Governors and a Postal Regulatory Commission that champion a strong public Postal Service.  
 Democrats won't let that happen. We fought hard to pass the most significant investments in America in generations. Now, we'll continue the important work of implementing them, to be sure that the benefits are shared in every corner of America and create good-paying jobs that folks can raise a family on, with the chance to join a union, and that rely on materials made here at home. We cannot go backwards. We have to own these industries and jobs of the future.  
 SMALL BUSINESSES  
 Small businesses are the engine of America's economy and the glue of our communities. They employ nearly half of all private sector workers, and drive half of all economic activity. They embody the vision and grit that literally built this country.  
 Since then, Democrats have passed other historic laws, to build infrastructure, semiconductors, clean energy, and the small-business supply chains that support those cutting-edge industries, here at home. The Administration is expanding access to capital, business opportunities, and training to help those small businesses; while working for a fairer tax code, to level the playing field for small entrepreneurs who have to compete against corporate giants. The Administration has invested a record $12 billion in Community Development Finance Institutions (CDFIs), to support small businesses and growth across low-income communities. The Small Business Administration is nearly halfway to its goal of providing $250 billion in financing to 500,000 small businesses by 2030. For example, to get mom-and-pop businesses the small loans, under $150,000, that are often hard to secure, the SBA has brought in additional non-traditional lenders that specialize in working with underserved small businesses. It's now on track to double these loans by year's end, compared to 2020. The Administration is also directing billions of dollars to community lenders and state-level small-business programs. Along with initiatives like Vice President Harris's Economic Opportunity Coalition, it is mobilizing hundreds of billions more in private investment. At the same time, the federal government this year set a record for small business contract spending, awarding them 28 percent of total procurement dollars, directly supporting a million jobs. It is on track to meet its goal of increasing federal contracts awarded to small disadvantaged businesses by 50 percent.  
 As a result, America is today in the midst of a historic small-business boom. A record 18 million new business applications have been filed since Joe Biden became president – the three strongest years of new business growth in history, and over 90 percent faster than pre-pandemic averages. Since the pandemic, the share of Black households owning a business has more than doubled, Latino business ownership is up 40 percent, and women own a record share of businesses. As President Biden often says, each new business formed is an act of hope.  
 Thanks to President Biden's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the Minority Business Development Agency is now a permanent part of the Commerce Department, where it's training underserved entrepreneurs. The SBA's innovative Community Navigators program meanwhile helped 350,000 small businesses tap into resources that have helped them grow. In a second Biden term, we'll make that Navigator program permanent, and include new lenders, new markets, and fairer taxes.  
 AGRICULTURE  
 American farmers are the backbone of our country. They feed America, and help feed the world. But over the years, trickle-down economics has hit rural America hard. Farming costs have gone up and incomes have gone down. Big Agriculture moved in, telling too many small farms that the surest path to success was to get big or get out. As a result, we lost over 400,000 farms in America in the last 40 years, and rural communities have paid a steep price. Too many young people have had to leave their hometowns to find good-paying work and a shot at their dreams.  
 The President believes that no one should have to leave the community where they grew up just to find opportunity. His Investing in America agenda is investing in all of America, including farms and rural areas. It's creating new sources of income for farmers and increasing competition among suppliers, to both lower the cost of farm inputs and to get small and mid-size farmers a larger share of profits. The Inflation Reduction Act is helping farmers and ranchers adopt climate-smart practices, which make the land more resilient and increase profitability, while connecting them to new markets and premiums for sustainably produced commodities. The Administration recognizes the critical role that our land stewards play in our food systems, economy, and environment, and is working hard to drive both public and private funds to reward these champions for nature for their hard work. The Administration has also supported independent meat and poultry processing, reducing producers' reliance on big companies to buy their product; and it's working to make livestock and poultry markets fairer and more transparent. Today, family farms have more income from more varied sources, so their children have more opportunity to stay family farmers.  
 At the same time, the Administration is helping family farmers service distressed loans in order to keep their lands and ultimately pass them down to their kids. It has worked with many farmers to boost the production of expensive fertilizer, increasing supply and easing costs for everyone else. The U.S.D.A. also expanded farm insurance to allow for more double cropping, a practice that increases farm earnings, expands the food supply, and helps lower average food prices for American families. Going forward, Democrats will also work to get farmers the right to repair their own equipment, without having to pay big equipment makers for diagnostic tools and repairs. And we will look to further limit foreign ownership of U.S. farmland to protect our food supply and national security.  
 Throughout, Democrats have stood by farm workers. We are working to improve workers' safety at meat processing facilities, and we will continue to enforce and advance labor and environmental rules, for example promoting organizing rights and requiring overtime pay, and boosting protections against harmful pesticides and extreme heat.  
 FIGHTING POVERTY  
 As Democrats, we believe in an America where people look out for one another and leave no one behind. But we know we still have a long way to go to make America's promise real for everyone. Some 40 million Americans still live in poverty. The pandemic made things worse, hitting the poor hardest, and pushing millions more families to the brink. The American Rescue Plan drove poverty to record lows in 2021. It expanded the Child Tax Credit and made it available to all low-income children for the first time, helping to slash child poverty by nearly half. It tripled the maximum Earned Income Tax Credit for millions of low-income workers, so their taxes wouldn't push them deeper into poverty. It kept 8 million families in their homes, child care centers open, and small businesses on their feet. It increased Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits, helping tens of millions of Americans keep food on the table. Not a single Republican voted for the bill.  
 Now, it's time to finish the job. Democrats know that most folks fundamentally want the same things – not a hand out, but a fair shot. That's why we'll keep pushing to restore the expanded Child Tax Credit and Earned Income Tax Credit, which proved so effective at reducing poverty before Republicans let them expire. We'll work to finally raise the federal minimum wage to at least $15-an-hour. We'll fight for paid leave, better health care, and more investment in public schools and affordable housing. We'll reduce the need for foster care, by supporting families and engaging kin. We'll further expand public transit, connecting communities that have been cut off for too long. We'll keep working to get more low-income families access to affordable banking as well, and to boost the supply of capital and loans by investing more in CDFIs. We'll also push to make the New Markets Tax Credit permanent, drawing new investment to low-income communities nationwide. And we'll continue to reject Republican proposals to increase poverty by making devastating cuts to programs that vulnerable Americans count on.  
 In the wealthiest nation on earth, we all benefit when we help one another. Democrats will keep working to build an economy that rewards work, not wealth; where we care for the most vulnerable, and unleash the potential that all our children have to grow and thrive. We remain committed to fighting poverty and enabling all Americans to live up to their God-given potential.  
 ENDING SPECIAL INTEREST GIVEAWAYS  
 To invest in the American people and reduce the deficit, Democrats are also ending giveaways to big corporations and special interests that have benefitted at the expense of American taxpayers for too long.  
 We're seizing a tremendous opportunity for savings on prescription drugs and insurance. The Administration has already cracked down on one of Big Pharma's biggest scams, by finally giving Medicare, the single biggest buyer of drugs in America, the ability to negotiate lower prescription drug prices, as the VA and private insurers have done for years. The Administration is also requiring drugmakers to reimburse Medicare if they hike prices faster than inflation. That kind of markup pads Big Pharma profits, wasting taxpayer dollars. Democrats will expand the number of drugs subject to price caps and negotiation under the Inflation Reduction Act, saving taxpayers nearly $160 billion over the next 10 years, as Medicare will no longer have to pay Big Pharma exorbitant prices.  
 At the same time, we'll keep pushing to crack down on outsize insurance company profits, for example by requiring health insurers to reimburse Medicaid if they bill more than they actually spend on patient care. We also believe in saving taxpayers money by investing more in preventative health care, vaccines, and other treatment for Medicaid and CHIP beneficiaries, avoiding unnecessary medical costs by keeping folks healthy – investing in America, and in the American people.  
 Chapter Two: Rewarding Work, Not Wealth  
 To any American with the ingenuity and drive to make a million bucks, President Biden says, great. Just pay your fair share in taxes. A hedge fund manager or CEO should never pay a lower tax rate than a teacher or firefighter. A company with billions of dollars in profits should not pay $0 in taxes.  
 A fair tax code is how we invest in the things that make our nation strong, like health care, education, a clean environment, and the national defense. It's how we protect programs that Americans rely on, like Social Security and Medicare. It's how we build a powerful economy, reduce fiscal risks, and lead the world.  
 Democrats have a different view. We don't believe we should add $5 trillion to the national debt to give more tax breaks skewed to the wealthy and big corporations. We're fighting to reward work, not wealth – to cut costs and make the tax code fairer for the middle class, while making the wealthy and big corporations finally pay their fair share. Under President Biden's plan, no American earning less than $400,000 a year will pay one single penny more in federal taxes, period. We're working to end special interest giveaways, and to make sure all Americans play by the same rules. And instead of exploding the national deficit, our plan cuts it by $3 trillion over the next decade, delivering real results for the American people in a fiscally responsible way.  
 CUTTING TAXES FOR WORKING FAMILIES  
 Democrats will protect everyone earning less than $400,000 a year from any tax increase; and we will fight to protect and expand other tax benefits for working people and families with children.  
 During the pandemic, Democrats expanded the Child Tax Credit, saving nearly 40 million families with 65 million children up to $3,600 per child per year, and cutting child poverty nearly in half to its lowest rate on record. We expanded the Earned Income Tax Credit as well, saving over 17 million low-paid workers an average $700 a year. And, we expanded the health insurance premium tax credit, saving millions of families who buy coverage on an Affordable Care Act exchange about $800 a year.  
 Republicans are opposed to this tax relief for families that need it. They already blocked renewal of our Child Tax Credit and Earned Income Tax Credit expansions, pushing 3 million children back into poverty. Republicans also keep trying to repeal our premium tax credit expansions, which will raise health care costs for millions of families. Democrats will keep fighting to restore and protect that tax relief, giving tens of millions of families some breathing room again. And President Biden has also proposed a $10,000 tax credit for first-time homebuyers and people selling their first homes, to help reduce housing costs for working families.  
 The Treasury Department and the IRS are also making it easier and cheaper for Americans to file their taxes and collect the refunds they're owed. The IRS successfully piloted a free, easy-to-use online tool, Direct File, which has already saved taxpayers millions of dollars in filing fees. It has since announced that Direct File will be a permanent offering, saving users an average $150 in filing costs – but Republicans keep trying to defund this free tool.  
 MAKING THE WEALTHY & BIG CORPORATIONS PAY THEIR FAIR SHARE  
 President Biden's plans will cut taxes for middle-class and low-income Americans – and we'll finance those cuts by making the ultra-wealthy and big corporations finally start paying their fair share.  
 There are a thousand billionaires in America, and they pay an average 8 percent in taxes – a far lower rate than a firefighter or teacher. Democrats will make billionaires pay a minimum income tax rate of 25 percent, raising $500 billion in 10 years. We'll end the preferential treatment for capital gains for millionaires, so they pay the same rate on investment income as on wages.  
 We'll put an end to abusive life insurance tax shelters, and stop billionaires from exploiting retirement tax incentives that are supposed to help middle-class families save. We'll eliminate the "stepped-up basis" loophole for the wealthiest Americans, so they can't avoid paying taxes on their wealth by passing it down to heirs. Democrats will close the "carried interest" loophole, which wealthy fund managers have long used to halve tax rates on their own personal pay, so they pay a lower rate than some teachers or firefighters do. That's wrong. And, we'll increase our new stock buyback tax to 4 percent to discourage stock buybacks that benefit executives and wealthy shareholders, instead of workers and consumers.  
 We will also keep upping the pressure on wealthy and corporate tax cheats that fail to pay what they owe. The IRS was severely underfunded for years; but Democrats are improving IRS services for everyday taxpayers and reviving enforcement against wealthy and corporate tax cheats, raising more than an estimated $440 billion in additional revenue as a result. The IRS has already collected over $500 million in unpaid taxes from less than 2,000 delinquent millionaires, and launched efforts aimed at thousands of other millionaires who hadn't filed a return in years. Democrats will protect this progress by continuing to invest in modernizing the IRS. Republicans are working to reverse it, protecting wealthy tax cheats and increasing the deficit instead.  
 Democrats will also make billion-dollar companies pay their fair share. In 2020, 55 of the biggest companies in America made $40 billion in profit, but paid zero in federal income taxes.  
 Democrats oppose unfair loopholes and wasteful subsidies that benefit special interests at everyone else's expense. We will fight to get rid of them. That starts by eliminating tens of billions of dollars in subsidies for oil and gas companies. It means ending special tax breaks for corporate jets, and boosting fuel taxes on corporate and private jet travel, saving taxpayers $4 billion over 10 years. And we'll no longer permit companies to deduct the cost of paying executives more than $1 million a year. Corporations shouldn't get a tax break for giving huge pay packages to CEOs.  
 Chapter Three: Lowering Costs  
 Today, our economy is growing, wages are rising, and a record number of Americans have good jobs. But for too many hard-working families, the cost of living is too high. Lowering costs is Democrats' number one economic priority. We're using every tool to bring prices down on health insurance and prescription drugs, including negotiating the price of commonly used drugs for diabetes and heart failure; and on housing, child care, internet, banking, credit cards, and more. We have more to do, but our actions are already putting thousands of dollars a year back in people's pockets. Those savings add up, and Democrats will keep fighting until every American feels them.  
 When the pandemic disrupted supply chains, everyday items became hard to get, raising prices. When Russia invaded Ukraine, food and gas prices spiked more. As companies' costs went up, they raised prices, too. President Biden worked across industries to ease supply bottlenecks and get goods and energy flowing again. He delivered, and inflation has since dropped two-thirds from its peak.  
 But some companies haven't passed those new savings on to consumers. Their costs have come down, but they've kept prices high anyway, boosting profits. Corporate profits have more than doubled since 2017. Last year, after-tax profit ratios for corporations outside the financial sector were their highest in 90 years.  
 President Biden's lowering costs agenda is historic in scope, attacking the issue from every angle to help cut costs for consumers, crack down on price gouging, and get companies to use their record profits to reduce prices long-term. It's also investing in making things in America again to boost supply, push down prices, and bring jobs home.  
 HEALTH CARE & PRESCRIPTION DRUGS  
 Health Care  
 Today, more Americans have health insurance than ever in history. Coverage is up and costs are down. A record 21 million people signed up through the Affordable Care Act this year, helping to slash the uninsured rate from 16 percent in 2010 to under 8 percent now. Democrats have expanded the health insurance premium tax credit twice, saving millions of Americans an average of $800 a year on coverage; and helping an additional 1.7 million Latinos, 830,000 Black Americans, and 110,000 Asian Americans buy more affordable insurance. Republicans want to let those credits expire, increasing premiums. Democrats will fight to make them permanent.  
 As Democrats, we support Medicaid expansion, encouraging states to provide health coverage to low-income Americans on the federal government's tab. The Administration has helped over a million people in four states to enroll; and we'll keep pushing Congress to further expand Medicaid-like coverage to the 2.8 million uninsured low-income adults who live in states where Republicans still refuse the help.  
 Democrats are working to protect kids' health coverage as well, by removing financial barriers for the Children's Health Insurance Program; and making it easier for families to keep kids on Medicaid. President Biden's plan will let families go three years without having to resubmit Medicaid paperwork for children younger than six, reducing burdensome red tape.  
 Democrats believe that quality, affordable health care should be available in every corner of America. The Administration has invested in new mobile health clinics; and in keeping community and rural health centers, lifelines for tens of millions of people, open, well-staffed, and well-equipped. We want to double those investments now. And the Administration is cracking down on federally funded health care providers that turn away or otherwise discriminate against people on the basis of race, sex, age, national origin, or disability.  
 Democrats will keep working to grow the health care workforce, so workplace and other provider shortages no longer create barriers to quality care and inflate health care costs. We are investing in programs that train primary care practitioners, registered nurses, mental health specialists, and others to work across our health care system, including in rural and low-income areas.  
 The Administration is also cracking down on surprise medical billing and junk health insurance, so patients are no longer ambushed by unexpected bills or scammed into buying low-quality health coverage. Democrats will expand "no-surprise billing" to include costly ground ambulances; and we'll keep using antitrust laws to stop hospital, insurance, and Big Pharma mergers that undermine competition and increase health care prices for consumers.  
 At the same time, Democrats will keep fighting to ease the burden of medical debt, which makes it harder for millions of Americans to get a mortgage or other loan for the future. Democrats provided funding to forgive $7 billion in medical debt for nearly 3 million Americans; and the Administration is urging states to use remaining funds to do more. It already persuaded credit reporting agencies to exclude many medical debts from credit reports, boosting people's credit scores and prospects for the future. In all, these actions have reduced the total number of Americans with listed medical debt from 46 million in 2020 to 15 million. Democrats will keep pushing to exclude medical debts from credit scoring entirely.  
 Democrats also support the Administration's historic work to close fundamental gaps in women's health care, including by protecting access to reproductive health care. This includes its efforts to reduce maternal mortality, led by Vice President Harris. She called for states to provide a full year of postpartum coverage for Medicaid beneficiaries, with 46 states, the District of Columbia, and the U.S. Virgin Islands now taking that step. The Administration is also making transformative investments in women's health research to find better ways to prevent, diagnose, and treat health conditions in women, and to make care more accessible and affordable. And it is leading game-changing work to end cancer as we know it, including through the creation of the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health (ARPA-H).  
 Prescription Drugs  
 President Biden, Vice President Harris, and Democrats took on Big Pharma and won. Democrats capped the price of insulin at $35 a month, down from as much as $400, for nearly 4 million seniors on Medicare. And President Biden persuaded the nation's top three insulin makers to lower their prices for everyone. Now, we'll fight to expand that $35 cap to cover everyone, saving millions of Americans with diabetes nearly $1,000 a year. Starting next year, the Inflation Reduction Act also caps total out-of-pocket drug costs at $2,000 a year for millions of seniors and others on Medicare. Democrats will fight until that cap covers every single American.  
 For the first time, Medicare now also has the ability to negotiate lower drug prices, as private insurers and the VA have done for decades. It started doing so this year, beginning with 10 commonly used medications for conditions such as diabetes and heart failure. Democrats will push to add at least 50 drugs a year to that list, lowering prices for 500 drugs this decade. Medicare Part-D is also working to cap cost-sharing for life-saving generics at $2 a dose; Democrats will make this mandatory for all Medicare beneficiaries.  
 The Administration is also leading the charge against Big Pharma price gouging, by requiring drugmakers that raise prices faster than inflation to pay the difference back to Medicare, which will then pass savings on to consumers. This will protect over 750,000 seniors, who could save as much as $4,500 per over-priced dose. Democrats will keep fighting to expand these rebates, applying them when drugmakers overcharge not just Medicare, but private insurers as well. We're also cracking down on improper drug patent listings, which some drugmakers use to shut out competition. Once companies drop their improper patent listings, other companies will be free to make cheaper alternatives. The FTC's work in this area has already pushed three of the biggest makers of inhalers to lower prices to $35 a month, saving people with asthma hundreds of dollars a year. The Administration also enacted rules to finally make hearing aids available over-the-counter, saving millions of Americans up to $3,000 a pair. And Democrats will continue the Administration's work to require that any drugs developed with taxpayer dollars be available to taxpayers, including at reasonable prices. Democrats will keep working to lower drug prices by requiring more transparency from the "pharmacy benefit manager" middlemen who generally decide which drugs are covered by insurance and bought by doctors, and how much they cost.  
 All these actions will benefit family budgets. And they'll boost the federal budget, too – reducing the deficit by $160 billion over the next ten years, as Medicare no longer has to pay Big Pharma exorbitant prices.  
 CHILD CARE, HOME CARE, & PAID LEAVE  
 Child & Home Care  
 The United States can't have the best economy in the world without strong support for caregiving. But today, the cost of care is too high, pay for care workers is too low, and families are caught in the middle of a broken system. Democrats understand that fixing the caregiving crisis cannot wait.  
 During the pandemic, Democrats' American Rescue Plan kept 220,000 child care centers open, getting parents back to work and saving families an average $1,250 a year per child. It preserved a million care workers' jobs, and increased their pay by 10 percent. It expanded support for home- and community-based services for seniors and people with disabilities.  
 And not a single Republican voted for it.  
 Last year, President Biden issued a historic executive order directing agencies to further expand access to affordable care. The Administration also capped child care costs for 100,000 low-income families at 7 percent of their income, saving each an average $2,400 a year. Overall, the Administration increased federal child care funding by 50 percent.  
 Democrats will make investments like these permanent, and guarantee affordable, quality child care to millions of working families for less than $10-a-day per child. And we'll restore the expanded Child Tax Credit and strengthen Head Start. For seniors and people with disabilities, Democrats will improve and expand home- and community-based services, working toward finally eliminating the 700,000-person Medicaid waiting list, so more people can live and work with dignity in their own communities. We'll also keep pushing to improve pay and benefits for care workers, for example by fighting to get many of them a bigger share of Medicaid home care payments. Democrats will overhaul the quality of care and quality of life for our nation's 1.3 million nursing home residents by defending Administration regulations that require minimum staffing standards at nursing homes.  
 Paid Leave  
 America is the world's only advanced economy not to guarantee paid leave. The vast majority of employers don't offer it – nearly three-quarters of private-sector employees don't have paid family leave through their jobs, including 94 percent of America's lowest-paid workers. The pandemic only made the economic consequences of this failure more devastating. In the United States of America, no one should have to choose between caring for a parent who raised them, a child who depends on them, and the paycheck that they need to survive.  
 From Day One, President Biden has pushed to do more. He fought to include a comprehensive paid leave program in legislation that ultimately became the Inflation Reduction Act. He instructed federal agencies to expand access to paid and unpaid leave for federal employees. He expanded the Military Parental Leave Program, so all active-duty, new-parent servicemembers can take 12 weeks. And his budget includes the strongest paid leave proposals in history, permanently funding the national paid leave plan that America needs.  
 That plan will create America's first, full, national paid family and medical leave program, guaranteeing every American worker up to 12 weeks of paid time off to care for a new child or loved one to recover from an illness, in cases of domestic violence, or military deployment. It will help families care for one another, and it will help businesses retain valuable talent and small businesses to compete. Millions more parents will be able to work, and it will add hundreds of billions to our economy. Democrats have pushed for this for decades. It's past time that America caught up with the rest of the world.  
 GAS & GROCERIES  
 When the pandemic crushed supply chains, prices for everyday items, from food to gas to airfare, went up. But after supply bottlenecks eased, many companies didn't lower prices in line with their falling costs. President Biden will keep calling those companies out for price gouging, and hold them accountable when they don't pass savings on to consumers.  
 To lower prices, Democrats will also keep working to boost supply, fix supply chains and promote competition, especially for essential items like gas and groceries that families depend on.  
 Through record energy production of clean energy, oil, and gas, we've lowered prices at the pump for American families. The Administration also released nearly 200 million barrels of gasoline from the Strategic Petroleum and Northeast Gasoline Supply reserves; and it is lowering gas prices by up to 25 cents per gallon more in certain markets, particularly in the Midwest, by making cheaper, E15 ethanol-blended gasoline available each summer. And, the Administration is cracking down to prevent collusion by oil companies that could raise prices more.  
 The President also knows the frustration and fear that high grocery prices can cause, and he has taken action to lower costs for hard-working families. He and his team have met repeatedly with grocery CEOs and business leaders, who agreed this spring to lower prices. The Administration is also cracking down on price gouging and promoting competition in agriculture, making everything from fertilizer to poultry processing more affordable for farmers. The President also signed into law the bipartisan Ocean Shipping Reform Act, which lowers shipping prices and helps American farmers export their goods.  
 CORPORATE GREED  
 Today, corporate consolidation is allowing companies to keep raking in historic profits, while continuing to raise prices for working families. In the two decades before President Biden came to office, three-quarters of American industries grew more concentrated. As the President often says, capitalism without competition isn't capitalism, it's exploitation. And the American people are tired of being played for suckers.  
 The Administration has taken historic steps to boost competition across our economy, in fields from finance and farming to technology and transportation. We're banning non-compete agreements so that workers have the freedom to pursue a new job or start a new business. We're protecting consumers from unfair hidden "junk fees" and price gouging, and shoring up our banking system to keep people's hard-earned savings safe.  
 During his first months in office, the President launched a Competition Council tasked with coordinating and advancing this work. Agencies have taken dozens of actions to increase competition across markets and industries – from making hearing aids available over the counter, to reducing cargo and rail shipping costs for goods, to support efforts to allow farmers and other Americans to repair their own equipment. The Justice Department and the FTC have increased antitrust enforcement, releasing updated merger guidelines, and halting a slate of big mergers in the airline, food, and defense sectors that would've increased consumer prices.  
 Democrats will keep working to make the American economy more competitive for businesses and workers across sectors, from transportation to housing to food. And we will reform hiring and procurement processes across the government, to boost competition among our contractors and suppliers, too.  
 The Administration is also taking broad action to crack down on "junk fees," the hidden charges that companies add on to people's bills without their knowledge, reducing consumer choice. We've already taken action to crack down on a range of these junk fees charged by airlines, internet providers, hotels, and apartment buildings. We've pushed banks to slash unfair overdraft and bounced check charges and took action to cap credit card late fees. We're cracking down on junk health insurance plans that advertise one rate, but then stick patients with a much bigger medical bill. Over time, these combined actions will save American families hundreds and even thousands of dollars a year – adding up to more than $20 billion a year across the economy – giving people a little more breathing room. And we'll keep pushing until we ban all junk fees across our economy.  
 Democrats are also working to shore up a safe, secure banking system that protects consumer deposits and holds investors accountable. Democrats have pushed for legislation to hold executives at all failed banks accountable, clawing back compensation and banning them from the industry. We're working to limit out-of-control Wall Street bonuses that encourage risky bank practices that jeopardize our whole economy. And we'll keep pushing to pass an updated Glass-Steagall Act, more clearly separating commercial and investment banking and expanding Volcker rule safeguards. We defeated Republican efforts to gut the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau at the Supreme Court this year; we'll continue to protect and strengthen that agency and support its critical work.  
 HOUSING  
 A home is more than a roof over your head, it's a place to raise your family, to build community, and to grow the American Dream. It's also the biggest investment, and the biggest monthly expense, that most people ever face. Some 15 years after the subprime mortgage crisis devastated homeowners and froze construction nationwide, we're still seeing the effect of a severe housing shortage that's pushing up prices and keeping homes out of reach.  
 President Biden has taken historic steps to help Americans rent, buy, and build. In the depth of the pandemic, the American Rescue Plan kept 8 million families in their homes nationwide by preventing foreclosures and evictions. Since then, the Administration has eased rising rents by capping rent hikes in 2 million federally-funded apartments. It led the biggest expansion of rental assistance for low-income families in 20 years. It's cracking down on slumlords who don't play by the rules. The Administration has reduced mortgage-insurance premiums on federally-backed loans for 700,000 homeowners; and waived the requirement for title insurance, saving families up to $1,500 to refinance.  
 The relief is helping. More people own homes today than did before the pandemic, and we're seeing fewer foreclosures than at any time in decades. But Democrats know the surest way to bring housing costs down long-term is to build to boost supply. So the Administration is cutting red tape to help more builders get federal financing. A record 1.7 million new housing units are under construction today nationwide.  
 Going forward, the President has laid out one of America's most ambitious housing plans in over 50 years. It expands rental assistance to a half-million new households, including to low-income veterans and young people aging out of foster care. It offers corporate landlords a basic choice for the next two years: either cap rent increases at 5 percent, or lose a valuable federal tax break. It offers a $10,000 mortgage-relief tax credit to first-time homebuyers, and $25,000 in down-payment assistance to buyers from families where no one has ever before owned a home. At the same time, the Administration is going after unfair rental "junk fees," like fees people are charged just to pay rent online or to receive sorted mail. And, we will crack down on corporate landlords who are gouging tenants, for example by capping the amount they can raise the rent each year; and we will go after negligent landlords who don't maintain basic habitability standards. We will also crack down on those who violate the Fair Housing Act, and on landlords who discriminate against low-income and minority renters and people with housing vouchers. We are rooting bias out of the home appraisal process, which perpetuates the racial wealth gap by unjustly undervaluing millions of Black- and Latino-owned homes.  
 The President's plan also calls for funding to help build or renovate 2 million homes nationwide – by expanding the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit for developers to build affordable rental housing; and by introducing a new Neighborhood Homes Tax Credit, the first ever to focus on creating affordable housing not for renters, but for homeowners. It also creates a Housing Innovation Fund, to help state and local governments find new ways to increase supply, like by converting empty office or hotel space into apartments.The plan also encourages state and local efforts to take on barriers to building new housing.  
 Democrats are dedicated to increasing the supply of an array of housing options like duplexes, triplexes, and townhomes that bridge the gap between single-family homes and large apartment buildings. By reducing barriers to building housing and providing federal tax incentives for the development of housing for people of all incomes, we can foster vibrant, inclusive communities where people from all walks of life can find affordable, diverse living options. Workforce housing must also be prioritized to ensure that our nation's teachers, nurses, firefighters, and other essential workers can afford to live in the communities they serve. We recognize that these workers are the backbone of our society, but they are left to struggle with housing costs that outpace their incomes, leaving them unable to live near their workplaces. Democrats will meet this challenge head-on by increasing funding for programs that support the creation and preservation of affordable housing options for essential workers, as well as collaborating with state and local governments to accelerate the development of workforce housing, ensuring that our communities remain accessible and affordable for all.  
 Democrats are working to help Americans cover other housing-related costs, like utilities. Families are already saving thousands of dollars with clean energy tax credits; and 23 million households received free or monthly discounts, saving $30 to $75 per month on high-speed broadband through the largest internet affordability program in history. It expired in May, because Republicans refused to act; but Democrats will keep fighting to reinstate it. We'll keep working to expand other programs that reduce home heating, cooling, and water bills as well, especially in rural areas; and to speed the transition to cheaper renewable energy, like solar, that will lower people's bills long-term.  
 The Administration is also leading one of America's most ambitious efforts to prevent homelessness. Based on a "housing first" principle, it's helping states and cities prioritize housing as the foundational step in delivering support, services, and jobs to rebuild lives. The Administration will work with Congress and local jurisdictions to increase supportive and interim housing options, and the services necessary to help unhoused individuals stay permanently housed.  
 EDUCATION  
 Democrats fundamentally believe that every student deserves a quality education, regardless of their parents' zip code or income.  
 We know that education starts well before kids go to kindergarten. Studies show that children who attend preschool are nearly 50 percent more likely to finish high school and go on to earn a two- or four-year degree, no matter their background. That's why Democrats will provide free, universal preschool for four-year olds, saving the families of 5 million children $13,000 a year.  
 In the wake of the pandemic, that's especially urgent. The American Rescue Plan made the biggest investment in public education in history, providing $130 billion to help 15,000 districts reopen, rebuild, and catch kids up; funding that has worked to help our children learn. The historic investment spurred long overdue improvements in school facilities and indoor air quality, creating safe and healthy learning environments for students and school staff. Since then, we've also provided an additional $2 billion to high-need, Title I schools. We've helped districts nationwide train and hire 14,000 more counselors and social workers, so kids can heal from the disruptions of COVID, and cope with the fear of gun violence in order to focus on learning. We increased investments in full-service community schools five-fold, providing health care, nutrition, job training, and other wraparound services for kids at school, investing in their futures and making families' lives easier.  
 The Administration supports a multitude of approaches that have been proven to help students learn: reducing chronic absenteeism by building social and emotional supports at schools, offering literacy programs, and setting high expectations for student attendance; providing intensive tutoring; extending the school day and school year; expanding community schools; and helping schools to lift student achievement, rather than punishing them based on state standardized tests. We support fully funding IDEA to prioritize students with disabilities and the special educator workforce. We support efforts to provide more timely, well-rounded, actionable feedback on student learning and progress to educators and to families that will support instruction and student success, while upholding rigorous academic standards. We oppose the use of private-school vouchers, tuition tax credits, opportunity scholarships, and other schemes that divert taxpayer-funded resources away from public education. Public tax dollars should never be used to discriminate. And we'll continue working to increase accountability at charters, holding them to the same transparency standards as public schools. We'll prioritize education in cutting-edge STEAM fields as well, especially for students from underrepresented communities, preparing every child to compete and thrive. And we're working to provide every student with a pathway to multilingual education, while ensuring equitable access to a high-quality education for English learners, who've historically been underserved.  
 A quality, postsecondary education used to be a ticket to the middle class, but the cost that many folks face for higher education today is crippling families, futures, and our entire economy. It has become a barrier to opportunity. Democrats will make quality, affordable, postsecondary education a path forward again.  
 Four year college is not the only pathway to a good career, so Democrats are investing in other forms of education as well, including career and technical education. The Administration is expanding job training partnerships that connect high schools, local businesses, and labor unions to prepare students for good jobs in high-skill, high-wage, and in-demand industries. It'll make trade school and community college free for every American. And it's making record investments in registered apprenticeships – which already train more than one million Americans a year across industries, including cutting-edge industries. Some 90 percent of them stay on as full hires, earning an average starting salary of $80,000 a year. That's a path to the middle class that families can count on.  
 A majority of college students graduate with student debt. It can be an overwhelming stress, as snowballing interest follows folks for decades, defining the choices they make and the jobs they take, and holding back our entire economy. Although Republican appointees on the Supreme Court blocked the President's initial student debt relief plan for 40 million borrowers, he has not stopped using every available tool to provide relief. His Administration already approved the cancellation of $167 billion in loans for nearly 5 million borrowers, including nearly a million public servants like teachers, nurses, and police; and it has outlined plans to deliver relief to 30 million borrowers in all. Meanwhile, its new SAVE plan is the most affordable student-loan repayment plan in history, helping 8 million Americans – including more than 4.5 million who now have a $0 monthly payment. These savings will transform lives, freeing people to buy a house, to start a family, or to launch a business with new hope.  
 For young people just heading to college now, we've already secured the largest increase in Pell Grants in a decade, and we'll further expand these grants to 7 million more students, and double the maximum award by 2029. We've invested a record $16 billion in Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs); and we're working to subsidize tuition at all Minority Serving Institutions for anyone whose family earns less than $125,000 a year.  
 At the same time, Democrats have educators' backs. Teachers, education support professionals, paraprofessional and school-related personnel, and specialized instructional support personnel are the heart and soul of our communities; they give so much of themselves, and inspire our children to dream. The Administration has canceled student loan debts for more than 942,000 public servants, including educators. Public school educators also deserve a raise. We'll recruit more new teachers, paraprofessionals and school related personnel, and education support professionals, with the option for some to even start training in high school; and we'll help school-support staff to advance in their own careers with a living wage. We will improve working conditions and support to help make teaching a sustainable and affordable profession. We'll keep investing in partnerships with HBCUs, MSIs, and Tribal Colleges and Universities to strengthen and diversify the teacher pipeline, so students of every background can see themselves at the head of the classroom and in charge of their schools.  
 SOCIAL SECURITY, PENSIONS, & MEDICARE  
 The right to a secure and dignified retirement is one of the bedrock principles of American life. Before Social Security, almost half of American seniors lived in poverty. Even those who'd spent a lifetime working didn't always have enough to put food on the table or health care they could count on. Democrats changed that: in 1935, we passed Social Security; in 1965, we signed Medicare and Medicaid into law. These are more than government programs – they're a promise that we've made as a country, that after a lifetime of hard work, people deserve to retire with dignity and security. They've made tens of millions of lives better.  
 Democrats won't let that happen. Generations of Americans have paid into these programs, with every paycheck of their lives. We'll never back down from our ironclad commitment to protecting Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid. We reject any effort to privatize Social Security or to cut any of the benefits that the American people have earned. Middle-class Americans pay 6.2 percent of their income to support Social Security, and the self-employed pay twice that. But people with multi-million dollar incomes pay a fraction of 1 percent. We'll strengthen the program and expand benefits by asking the wealthiest Americans to pay their fair share. We also oppose any actions to cut Medicare benefits. We'll look to expand traditional Medicare coverage to include dental, vision, and hearing services, which are so key to health and quality of life, by making the wealthy and big corporations pay their fair share.  
 The fact is that both Social Security and Medicare are in a stronger fiscal position today than when President Biden took office. Our strong economic recovery has helped to extend Medicare solvency by a decade. And the President's prescription drug reforms will save it hundreds of billions of dollars, by finally empowering Medicare to directly negotiate lower prices with drug companies, and to collect rebates if Big Pharma hikes prices faster than inflation. If Republicans repeal our reforms, they'll erase those savings and put Medicare itself at risk. Democrats will make Medicare permanently solvent, by making the wealthy pay their fair share in Medicare taxes.  
 Chapter Four: Tackling the Climate Crisis, Lowering Energy Costs, & Securing Energy Independence  
 Every year, the devastation caused by climate change grows more urgent. Across the country, Americans experience the dire impacts of climate change: Floods and storms wipe more homes off the map. Wildfire smoke spreads thousands of miles, forcing millions to shelter indoors. We've had the worst droughts in a thousand years, and the fastest sea-level rise in over a century. Last year was Earth's hottest on record. Natural disasters and extreme weather have cost America over one trillion dollars in damages in just the last seven years. And they hit the most vulnerable among us hardest – seniors, people with disabilities, people in neighborhoods without resources to blunt the impact.  
 President Biden is delivering on the most aggressive climate agenda in history. His landmark legislation has unleashed a clean energy boom that's slashing pollution, lowering energy costs, and has already created over 300,000 good-paying American clean energy jobs. America is now producing more energy than ever in its history. He has taken more environmental actions than any president before him – providing cleaner air and water, making communities more resilient, and forcing polluters to pay for the damage they've done. He is on track to protect more of America's lands and waters than any president before him, and he has restored our global climate leadership. He is positioning America to lead the future – energy independent, resilient, innovative, and strong.  
 PRODUCING CLEANER, MORE AFFORDABLE ENERGY  
 Across the world, we're seeing massive new clean energy production and uptake. We're at the dawn of a new era that will redefine the global economy, and that America must lead.  
 President Biden's Investing in America agenda makes the largest clean-energy investment in history; and it has already attracted over $400 billion in private sector commitments, to develop and manufacture solar, wind, battery, and other clean technologies here at home. Today, 585 new clean energy manufacturing projects are underway – not just on the coasts, but in 47 states, including in places too often left behind. Some 81 percent of the investments made since our landmark climate law passed are going to counties with below-average weekly wages.  
 America is making leaps forward in energy generation and storage, while modernizing our electricity grid and upgrading transmission lines to deliver reliable, clean power. Private sector companies have announced investment in solar modules that will power 18 million homes; and the Biden-Harris Administration has approved the first nine commercial offshore wind projects in federal waters, set to power nearly 5 million homes. Large-scale energy storage capacity has increased twelve-fold since the President took office, and is expected to double again by year's end.  
 This clean energy boom has already created over 300,000 jobs and lowered energy costs for millions of families. It puts us on track to triple clean-energy generation by 2030, reducing Big Oil's hold on our economy, protecting families from wild price swings, and bringing America closer to energy independence than we've been in over 70 years.  
 Going forward, Democrats will keep working to incentivize investment in transmission upgrades and new lines, and in the grid-component manufacturing that's needed to support that growth. We will improve and speed up the processes of environmental review and clean-energy permitting; and further scale up development of clean energy on public lands.  
 We'll also continue to invest in clean energy research and development, building on America's legacy as a nation of new frontiers and possibilities. To help find new ways of generating and storing energy, reducing emissions, and boosting climate resilience, we'll launch an Advanced Research Projects Agency for Climate (ARPA-C), modeled on the defense research agency that's behind breakthrough technologies like the internet and GPS, and the new ARPA-H that the Administration created to transform medicine. We'll also establish a new national lab for climate research and innovation, affiliated with an HBCU, Hispanic-, or other Minority-Serving Institution, to ensure the opportunities of the future are available to everyone, and built by everyone. And we will continue to invest in climate research across NASA, NOAA, the National Science Foundation, and other agencies, to make sure that America leads the world in clean energy innovation.  
 LOWERING ENERGY COSTS  
 Democrats' historic climate and clean energy agenda is lowering energy costs for families and small businesses long-term and today – with cheaper, cleaner energy and with tax credits to make home energy use more efficient and affordable. America's clean energy boom is giving everyone more energy choices than ever, and more choices mean lower prices. According to the Department of Energy, our policies are expected to slash overall electricity rates by 9 percent and gas prices by as much as 13 percent by 2030, saving Americans tens of billions of dollars.  
 At the same time, the Inflation Reduction Act is providing tax credits and rebates to make Americans' homes more efficient, so families can immediately start saving on their energy costs, now and for years to come. Families can reduce their bills up to $2,000 a year by making their homes more energy efficient with new insulation, windows, and doors; and by installing rooftop solar panels, home battery storage, and electric pumps for heating and cooling. Democrats are also offering rebates on new, energy-efficient appliances; and people can save up to $7,500 when they buy a new plug-in hybrid or fully electric car, or $4,000 if they buy a used one.  
 The Administration has toughened efficiency standards on new appliances and cars as well, which will further reduce emissions and energy bills. New fuel economy and tailpipe standards alone are expected to save drivers some $6,000 per car by reducing fuel and maintenance costs.  
 The Administration has also taken historic action to lower gas prices at the pump, by standing up to Big Oil's price gouging, releasing strategic reserves to blunt profiteering, and promoting competition with cleaner, cheaper, renewable fuel.  
 CREATING CLEAN ENERGY JOBS  
 President Biden has long said that when he thinks about climate change, he thinks about jobs. Good-paying union jobs that people can raise a family on. As President, he's delivering. The clean energy manufacturing and deployment boom ignited by his landmark climate law has so far directly created over 300,000 jobs in communities nationwide; and we're making sure those jobs meet rigorous worker and environmental safety standards. The legislation is helping to push American factory construction to an all-time high as well, as we build new plants to make things like batteries and electric vehicles, solar panels and wind turbines, and bring the supply chains needed to power a clean energy future home.  
 The President's agenda also includes extended Buy Clean and Buy America standards, requiring federal projects to use low-carbon, American-made cement, steel, and other materials; and providing credits for private companies to do the same, creating more American jobs. It also provides extra incentives for private companies to hire registered apprentices and pay prevailing wages. Through executive action and with Congress, Democrats will continue to work to create strong labor standards for jobs created with taxpayer dollars.  
 To help prepare people for these jobs, Democrats launched the American Climate Corps, a new workforce training and service initiative that will put more than 20,000 young Americans to work on clean energy, conservation, and climate resilience projects nationwide. President Biden has set a goal to triple the size of the American Climate Corps by the end of this decade, ensuring that young people are given the skills and tools they need to succeed in careers in our new clean energy and climate resilience economies. The Administration is also making record investments in registered apprenticeships, including in clean energy industries. Registered apprenticeships train more than a million Americans a year across industries, 90 percent of whom stay on in those jobs as full hires. We're also boosting investment in STEM education and workforce training programs for women and at Historically Black Colleges and Universities and other Minority Serving Institutions, to make sure the clean energy and manufacturing jobs of tomorrow are open and accessible to communities that have been too often left out in the past.  
 The Administration is also investing in new sources of income for America's farmers, and working to make our farm sector the world's first to reach net-zero emissions by 2050. Under President Biden's landmark climate law, the Agriculture Department is paying farmers to adopt climate-smart practices, which sequester carbon from the atmosphere, improve soil health and biodiversity, and restore water cycles, all while opening new revenue streams from ecosystem services markets. Already, over 80,000 farms covering 75 million acres have adopted these practices.  
 Above all, Democrats will unite against the Republican war on clean energy, blocking their obsessive attempts to repeal President Biden's clean energy investments. Republicans will not be allowed to pull the rug out from American clean energy businesses, send hundreds of thousands of jobs overseas, and strip all Americans of cheaper, cleaner energy choices, all to please their special interest backers.  
 REDUCING POLLUTION & MAKING POLLUTERS PAY  
 These transformative investments in American energy are lowering energy costs, creating good-paying jobs, revitalizing local economies, and reducing pollution.  
 Transportation is America's biggest emitter, responsible for a third of emissions. The Administration has put us on track to eliminate all carbon from the sector by 2050. It's making generational investments in transportation infrastructure, including in cleaner shipping, trucking, transit, rail, and aviation. It issued the toughest-ever fuel economy and tailpipe standards, so new cars both get better mileage, and reduce emissions per mile by as much as 50 percent.  
 With tax credits, Democrats helped quadruple sales of electric vehicles, with the goal that 50 percent of all new passenger cars sold in the U.S. by 2030 be electric. We're protecting American children from asthma-related diesel pollution by giving school districts rebates to buy thousands of electric school buses so kids don't have to breathe polluted air. We'll keep working to electrify the nation's fleet of school buses, transit buses, and federal vehicles, including the U.S. Postal Service fleet. We'll double funding to repair and expand active transportation and public transit, reducing pollution and traffic, and connecting people to jobs and opportunity. And we'll work to electrify our ports and waterways, prioritizing progress towards a goal of zero-emissions freight.  
 We'll keep pushing to reduce emissions from America's buildings and heavy industry. We support local and state efforts to adopt energy-efficient building codes. We'll require that low-carbon materials and clean power be used in all new federal buildings by 2030, and invest in upgrading VA hospitals, federal offices, and K-12 public school and community college buildings, making them innovative, energy efficient, and safe places to learn. And we'll support investments in heavy industry, to make America the leader in clean steel, cement, aluminum, and other products.  
 We also set America's first national drinking water standard to finally protect local water supplies from pollution with PFAS, toxic "forever chemicals" linked to cancer. Through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, we're upgrading wastewater systems. And we're replacing every toxic lead pipe in America – long-overdue work that will finally guarantee that every person in the country can turn on the faucet and drink clean water.  
 The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law also includes important work to speed the cleanup of toxic Superfund and brownfield sites that have leached poisonous waste into nearby neighborhoods for decades. To cover those costs, the law finally restored a vital "polluter pays" tax that had lapsed 26 years before, once again collecting revenue on any chemical sold in the United States, and directing it to the Superfund Trust Fund to pay for cleanup.  
 At the same time, the Administration has greatly increased civil and criminal enforcement of our nation's environmental laws, boosting funding for the Justice Department and Environmental Protection Agency, resulting in faster cleanups and tougher compliance. We support increased monitoring, transparency, and community engagement in this work.  
 Throughout, we'll keep standing up to Big Oil, as our clean energy boom breaks the industry's monopoly hold on energy markets. For the first time in 100 years, we've increased the royalties that oil and gas companies have to pay to drill or mine on public lands; and we're charging at least 10 times more for the bonds that are required to hold companies accountable for cleaning up drilling sites or capping their abandoned wells, which have been left to spew methane. States and private landowners have for years charged more than the federal government does to lease their lands; it's time the taxpayers got a similar return.  
 Going forward, we'll also eliminate tens of billions of dollars in other unfair oil and gas subsidies. When windfall profiteering causes prices to spike at the pump, we'll release our own supplies to keep costs down for American families. And, when we hear of potential collusion or price-gouging, we'll hold oil and gas executives accountable.  
 ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE  
 For too long in this country, too many communities have been denied the basic security and dignity that comes from having clean air, clean water, and functioning infrastructure. Too many parents still lay awake at night worrying what the rain or soil or water or air is doing to their kids. That kind of inequity goes against everything that we stand for as a nation. To finally change that, President Biden's climate agenda includes the most ambitious environmental justice actions in history, making sure that the people who've suffered most from legacy pollution can now share in the benefits.  
 During his first week in office, the President established the Justice40 initiative, with the goal of directing 40 percent of the benefits of our historic climate and clean energy investments to fenceline communities hit hardest by past pollution. Last year, he gave the program new teeth, with an executive order requiring every federal agency to designate its own Environmental Justice Officer to consider and improve the health impacts of its work on all communities.  
 Every major plank of our Investing in America agenda shares that commitment to environmental justice. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law invests a record $21 billion in tackling legacy pollution, the biggest effort to right such wrongs in American history. We're also investing in capping orphaned oil and gas wells, which leak deadly methane into surrounding communities well after Big Oil is gone.  
 And to help ensure new climate and clean energy projects can get financed across America, particularly in communities historically left behind and overburdened by pollution, President Biden and Vice President Harris launched a first-of-its-kind $27 billion national financing network as part of the Greenhouse Gas Reduction fund. This program will ensure communities across the country have access to the capital they need to participate in and benefit from a cleaner, more sustainable economy as we slash harmful climate pollution, improve air quality, lower energy costs, and create good-paying jobs.  
 Our climate law makes major investments in long-overdue clean water and sanitation as well. It launched a Clean Ports program to help ease the impact of air pollution around ports and airports, where thousands of trucks move goods in and out, often through neighborhoods experiencing distress as a result of historic disinvestment. It invests in clean public transit, connecting communities that have been isolated or disconnected by infrastructure and development to jobs, healthcare, education and opportunities. And under this climate law, millions of trees will be planted, deploying a nature-based solution to combat the urban heat island effect by cooling our streets and easing the deadly impact of extreme heat on people living and working in these areas. We will continue to implement the President's Executive Order on Environmental Justice for All, and will seek legislative options to further advance environmental justice.  
 Democrats also know we have a moral obligation to make sure that fenceline communities benefit from the clean energy revolution. Programs like Solar for All are helping to lower energy costs, by installing nearly a million solar rooftops in low-income areas by 2029. At the same time, we're providing bonus tax credits to draw clean energy and clean manufacturing to former fossil fuel and legacy power plant communities. They powered our nation for generations and deserve a just transition away from fossil fuels. Today, they're seeing rapid growth.  
 BUILDING CLIMATE RESILIENT COMMUNITIES  
 We have an urgent obligation to make every community in America more resilient to climate change and extreme weather. A record more than 2,300 Americans died after extreme heat exposure last year, making it the top weather-related killer; while as a country, we had to build back from 28 separate billion-dollar weather and climate disasters. It's not sustainable.  
 The President's infrastructure and climate laws are improving our climate resilience by boosting readiness and response, including by recruiting and retaining more wildland firefighters, and increasing budgets at FEMA. And, they're preparing us to better mitigate the impact of each extreme weather event as well. We've taken unprecedented steps to reinforce our nation's infrastructure, building new roads, bridges, and ports that are less vulnerable to flooding. We're putting power lines underground, so winds can't bring them down where they catch fire. We're making our electric grids more reliable and more energy efficient, so families and businesses don't lose power in critical moments. We're restoring wetlands to help protect communities from sea-level rise and storm surge. We've stabilized the Colorado River System, which provides water for more than 40 million Americans, after the worst drought in over a thousand years. We'll continue investing in public safety measures, like resiliency and cooling centers, so everyone, including our most vulnerable residents, can find refuge during extreme weather events. And we're looking out for workers, who often risk their lives on the job in extreme weather, with President Biden for example introducing the first national heat standards to protect workers from dangerous heat last year.  
 Going forward, Democrats will work to pass the bipartisan Disaster Resilience Tax Credit, to help low- and middle-income families and small businesses invest in preparing for and easing the impact of storms, heat, floods, and other natural disasters.  
 CONSERVATION  
 America's natural wonders are our nation's heart and soul. They unite and inspire us, and connect us to something bigger than ourselves. From his first day in office, President Biden has taken historic steps to protect, conserve, and restore them. He set our nation's first-ever national conservation goal to protect at least 30 percent of our lands and waters by 2030, including by supporting locally-led, voluntary efforts. Today, he is on track to conserve more American lands and waters than any President in history – over 41 million acres so far, including dozens of new national monuments, wildlife refuges, and other protected areas, from the Grand Canyon to the Great Lakes.  
 Going forward, Democrats will increase protections for America's Arctic, and ensure clean water for all Americans by protecting rivers and wetlands. We'll protect our oceans by working to designate new marine sanctuaries, and protect coastal communities from climate impacts. We'll keep pushing to fully fund the Land and Water Conservation Fund, partnering with state and local governments; and work to reduce threats to iconic old growth forests. We'll reward Americans across the country who engage in voluntary conservation on private lands, and we'll work with landowners to protect endangered species and our economy by restoring habitats and enhancing biodiversity, and continuing to protect lands and waters as National Monuments.  
 GLOBAL CLIMATE LEADERSHIP  
 With these historic actions and sustained engagement, President Biden has restored America's global climate leadership, once again making our nation the world's pivotal force against climate change. The United States rejoined the Paris Climate Agreement on day one of his presidency, and President Biden set an ambitious goal to reach net-zero emissions by 2050, in line with climate science. He used the restored power of America's example to press other nations to do more, persuading 155 countries to agree to slash methane emissions, a potent greenhouse gas, by at least 30 percent by the end of this decade. The United States is increasing the resilience, diversity, and security of our clean energy supply chains, while making sure they reflect our values, including by creating good-paying, safe jobs for workers. The Administration has rallied the world to commit for the first time to transitioning away from fossil fuels. It set a bold new goal for nations to triple renewable energy worldwide and to double energy efficiency by 2030; and it helped to launch a new global clean-energy supply chain partnership to make that happen.  
 As Democrats, we believe the United States has an indispensable role to play in solving the climate crisis, and we have an obligation to help other nations carry out this work. America's leadership in domestic clean energy development is driving a global cycle of innovation and investment that will help lower the cost of clean energy technologies in a fair and transparent way for all nations. We believe that international climate finance is an important tool in this fight. That's why the Administration committed to achieve $11 billion dollars of climate financing a year by 2024, to help develop the international clean energy market. And it worked with other nations to achieve a landmark global goal of mobilizing $100 billion in collective climate financing by 2022, fulfilling a promise of the 2015 Paris Agreement.  
 Going forward, we'll continue to support efforts to boost funding for initiatives like PREPARE, our program to build out better early warning systems for climate impacts in critical regions of the globe. We will use America's leadership to drive global innovation and build out clean energy supply chains. We'll work through the Multilateral Development Bank to elevate climate and clean energy priorities within the global development finance system. And we'll build on our leadership in innovative debt-for-nature swaps, which have helped countries from Barbados to Gabon to restructure over $2 billion in debt so far, unlocking hundreds of millions of dollars for nature and climate investments.  
 Chapter Five: Protecting Communities & Tackling the Scourge of Gun Violence  
 All Americans deserve freedom from fear: to be confident that their children will come home safely from the store or the playground, and to know that their loved one will come home safely from their shift policing the streets. Young Americans deserve a president who's fighting to keep guns out of school. Women deserve a president who has worked his whole life to end violence against women. Families deserve a president who has delivered safer neighborhoods.  
 Under President Biden, in 2023 the murder rate saw the sharpest decrease in history and violent crime fell to one of the lowest levels in more than 50 years. He defeated the gun lobby and passed the first significant federal gun safety law in nearly 30 years. And, Democrats provided funding for communities to hire more police.  
 Americans deserve the freedom to be safe, and America is safer today than when President Biden first took office.  
 GUN SAFETY  
 The gun violence epidemic is a scourge ripping apart our communities; it is the leading cause of death for children and teens. Mass shootings at schools, grocery stores, houses of worship, dancehalls, and nightclubs, as well as daily gun violence at home and on streets, devastate American families.  
 President Biden has been fighting and beating the gun lobby for decades, and he's continued to do so as president. With his leadership, Congress passed the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act (BSCA), the first significant federal gun safety law in nearly 30 years. It includes the first-ever federal gun trafficking and straw purchasing law, enhanced background checks for gun purchasers under the age of 21, funding to implement red flag laws, a narrowing of the "boyfriend loophole" to keep guns out of the hands of domestic abusers, and new requirements so all gun dealers now must conduct background checks no matter where or how they sell their merchandise. And, the law helps schools hire and train an estimated 14,000 school-based mental health professionals, including counselors, psychologists, and social workers.  
 President Biden also established the first-ever White House Office of Gun Safety Prevention - led by Vice President Harris - and took nearly 40 gun safety executive actions, including going after dangerous "ghost guns." He launched new law enforcement strike forces within the Department of Justice to crack down on gun trafficking.  
 Democrats will establish universal background checks, a step supported by the vast majority of Americans, including gun owners. We will once again ban assault weapons and high-capacity magazines. We will require safe storage for guns. Democrats will end the gun industry's immunity from liability, so gunmakers can no longer escape accountability. We will pass a national red flag law to prevent tragedies by keeping weapons out of dangerous hands. We will increase funding to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms (ATF) for enforcement and prosecution, and to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) for firearm background checks. And, because the gun violence epidemic is a public health crisis, we will fund gun violence research across the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and National Institutes of Health (NIH) as well as community violence interventions.  
 POLICING & PUBLIC SAFETY  
 President Biden recognizes the sacrifices police officers and their families make to keep our communities safe. Every day, officers risk their lives for the safety of people they do not know. And since Day One, President Biden has been working to make sure police officers have the tools they need to protect their communities, including more police officers on the street. We need to fund the police, not defund the police.  
 Democrats passed and President Biden signed the American Rescue Plan, with the largest-ever federal investment in fighting and preventing crime, reducing violence, and investing in public safety. That funding enabled cities and states to invest more than $15 billion in public safety and violence prevention, putting more police officers on the beat for accountable community policing, as well as interrupting and preventing crime. In 2023, the Justice Department provided $5.8 billion to state, [see APP note] local, Tribal, and territorial law enforcement agencies, research institutions, and nonprofits to advance public safety – including funding for 1,730 new police officers in nearly 400 communities. Because police officers should be able to focus on fighting crime, President Biden secured the first-ever federal funding solely dedicated to community violence intervention programs; and he increased funding for crisis interventions, mobile crisis teams, and training for first responders and law enforcement. President Biden also signed legislation replenishing the Crime Victims Fund, which supports programs that assist survivors. Democrats also secured funding for extra security at places of worship and community institutions; and we are investing in Tribal public safety.  
 Public trust, as any police officer will tell you, is the foundation of public safety. Police cannot fulfill their role to keep communities safe without public trust and confidence in law enforcement and in the criminal justice system. Yet, there are places in America today where the bonds of trust are frayed or broken. President Biden took action to enhance public trust by signing a historic executive order on police reform alongside George Floyd's family. He launched the National Law Enforcement Accountability Database with information on misconduct by federal law enforcement officers, and sharply restricted chokeholds and no-knock warrants for federal law enforcement. And, the Administration is publishing data on the use of force and is also preventing certain militarized equipment from being sold or transferred to local police agencies.  
 President Biden is committed to making our country safer for every American, civilians and law enforcement alike. Democrats will pass his Safer America Plan, which calls on Congress to invest $37 billion to support law enforcement and crime prevention. That includes funding 100,000 additional police officers for accountable community policing and $5 billion in community violence intervention, which will help prevent crime, keep communities safe, and build trust between law enforcement and the communities they serve. We will create a new Violent Crime Reduction and Prevention Fund to give federal, state, local, and Tribal law enforcement the resources they need to fight crime, including to hire more agents, prosecutors, and forensic specialists. We will give communities the tools to crack down on gun crime, retail crime, and carjacking. Democrats will build on the progress in President Biden's executive order on effective, accountable policing by passing the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act. And, we will end racial profiling and religious discrimination in law enforcement.  
 CRIMINAL JUSTICE  
 President Biden is committed to rehabilitation and reentry for people returning to their communities after incarceration, and to building a criminal justice system that lives up to those ideals and ensures that everyone receives equal justice under law. That's why he's taken historic steps to make this promise a reality.  
 No one should be in jail just for using or possessing marijuana. Sending people to prison for possession has upended too many lives and incarcerated people for conduct that many states no longer prohibit. Those criminal records impose needless barriers to employment, housing, and educational opportunities, disproportionately affecting Black and brown people. President Biden took historic action to end this failed approach by pardoning people convicted federally for using or possessing marijuana. He has called on governors to use their pardon power to do the same for state-level offenses. And his Administration is taking a major step to reschedule cannabis so it's no longer classified as more dangerous than fentanyl or methamphetamine.  
 President Biden has released a comprehensive strategic plan to improve the criminal justice system and strengthen public safety, including more than 100 concrete actions. The Administration is improving rehabilitation in jails and prisons and helping people rebuild their lives, an important step in reducing recidivism. It has invested nearly $1 billion in job training, addiction recovery, and reentry services across the country; and expanded access to Pell Grants, so people can earn a college degree while they are incarcerated, starting over with new skills. The Administration will keep investing in housing, mentorship, job training, and apprenticeship programs as well. It is working to end the school-to-prison pipeline by reissuing guidance from the Departments of Education and Justice to prevent disparate discipline of children of color and with disabilities and incentivizing states to develop community-based alternatives to prison for young people. And, President Biden reestablished the Justice Department's standalone Office for Access to Justice to ensure that everyone can get legal assistance.  
 President Biden has used his pardon power to right historical wrongs. In addition to pardoning simple possession and use of marijuana, he's pardoned or shortened the sentences of people convicted of other nonviolent drug offenses and pardoned approximately 2,000 gay, lesbian, and bisexual veterans who were convicted years ago just for being themselves.  
 Democrats will take action to expunge federal marijuana-only convictions. We will combat drug trafficking and expand the use of drug courts, interventions, and diversion for people with substance use disorders. We will fund a new Accelerating Justice System Reform grant program to provide jurisdictions with critical resources to foster community trust and safety, reduce inequity and justice system involvement, and alleviate burdens on police. We will expand access to public defenders and step up civil rights enforcement, including by boosting funding for the Justice Department's Civil Rights Division and hiring 50 new Assistant U.S. Attorneys. And, we will remove barriers to legal access, combat hate crimes, and counter cyber threats. To keep children and teens safe and out of the justice system, we will invest in after-school programs, community centers, and summer jobs. And, to ensure young people get a second chance after leaving the justice system, we will automatically seal and expunge juvenile records.  
 Democrats will end state-level use of private prisons and detention centers, and we will restrict state and local practices like solitary confinement, chokeholds, and restraints on pregnant inmates. We will guarantee access to medical care in prison and will eliminate profiteering from diversion, bail, electronic monitoring, commissaries, and reentry programs. We will support rehabilitation and education, including college programs, for inmates in prison and after their release. To help returning citizens succeed upon their release, we will boost access to transitional housing, affordable housing, mental health and substance use treatment. We will limit reincarcerating people federally to only serious violations of supervised release. And, we will work to expand "ban the box" so returning citizens can more easily find work, protect their right to vote, and protect their right to public services like Pell Grants and nutrition assistance.  
 VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN  
 Ending violence against women has been the cause of President Biden's life. In the U.S. Senate, with the help of courageous and committed advocates, he wrote the original Violence Against Women Act and spent the following decades working to expand and improve it with each reauthorization. As president, he was proud not only to reauthorize this landmark law but also to strengthen it. Democrats secured the highest-ever funding level for VAWA implementation, and are distributing record funding for local prosecutors, law enforcement, and survivor advocates. Crucially, the Administration has also expanded support for Native survivors and strengthened protections for Tribal communities; improved prevention and services for survivors of sexual assault, including through the Fairness for Rape Kit Backlog Survivors Act; expanded housing protections for domestic violence survivors; and increased services and support for survivors, including survivors of technology-facilitated abuse.  
 President Biden launched the first-ever National Plan to End Gender-Based Violence, and the American Rescue Plan provided immediate crisis intervention, health supports, and emergency services for survivors. He expanded funding for campus sexual assault prevention and is keeping students safe on campus by restoring and strengthening protections under Title IX, including explicit protections for LGBTQI+ students. He signed legislation that narrowed the "boyfriend loophole" to keep guns out of the hands of domestic abusers. He signed into law new protections to support survivors and address sexual assault and sexual harassment in the workplace. And, he signed a historic executive order on sexual assault and domestic violence in the military, transferring key decision-making authority from commanders to independent military prosecutors – the most significant transformation of the military justice system since the Uniform Code of Military Justice was established in 1950.  
 Democrats will work to end sexual assault, domestic violence, online abuse, and all violence against women. We continue to strengthen VAWA; keep guns out of the hands of domestic abusers; and expand housing and legal services for survivors. To keep students safe on campus, we will work with schools to implement and enforce Title IX and end sexual harassment and assault in our nation's schools. We will eliminate the rape kit backlog. And, we will strengthen legal protections for and support survivors of deepfake image-based sexual abuse building on the federal civil cause of action established under the president's reauthorization of VAWA in 2022.  
 Chapter Six: Strengthening Democracy, Protecting Freedoms, & Advancing Equity  
 President Biden, Vice President Harris, and Democrats know that democracy has always been America's sacred cause. Whether that's still true is the most urgent question of our time, and it's what the 2024 election is all about.  
 The President, Vice President, and all Democrats will continue to work every day to ensure that our democracy endures.  
 President Biden spent his first term working to restore trust in our institutions, protect our freedoms, and preserve our democracy for the future. President Biden, Vice President Harris, and Democrats have consistently made it clear that political violence has no place in America.  
 Democrats will not let that happen. Together, we will continue uniting and rallying Americans across the political spectrum in defense of our democracy, and making it clear that political violence has no place in America. We will defend our freedoms, restore essential trust in our institutions, and preserve America's vital role as a beacon of democracy across the world.  
 JUDGES  
 One of a president's most important duties is appointing the judges who shape our country's laws. Judges matter. They have the power to uphold basic rights or to roll them back. They hear cases that decide whether women have the freedom to make their own reproductive health care decisions; whether Americans have the freedom to cast their ballots; whether workers have the freedom to unionize and make a living wage for their families; whether children have the freedom to breathe clean air and drink clean water; and whether a president is above the law.  
 Judicial appointments are crucial at every level of the federal bench, but nowhere more so than on the Supreme Court. The next president could appoint one, two, or more new Supreme Court justices. Those justices will determine what freedoms Americans have – or lose – for the next 30, 40, or even 50 years.  
 President Biden will continue to appoint justices and judges across the federal bench who are like Justice Jackson: brilliant jurists committed to defending American rights and freedoms.  
 Judges should reflect the diverse population whose laws they shape, and President Biden has appointed more than 200 highly qualified federal judges who look like America. Nearly two-thirds of the judges he's appointed have been women, and nearly two-thirds have been people of color. President Biden has appointed more Black women to federal circuit courts than every other president combined; more Latino judges have been confirmed to circuit courts than under any other president; more AANHPI judges have been confirmed than in any other Administration; and after only one term, he is already tied for the most openly LGBTQI+ judges appointed. President Biden has also chosen judges from diverse professional backgrounds, ensuring a range of perspectives and experiences are represented on the federal bench: at least 40 of his judicial appointees are former public defenders, at least 25 have served as civil rights lawyers, and at least nine have represented workers.  
 In President Biden's second term, he will continue selecting judges who will protect fundamental rights and who represent the diversity of the American experience. We will push for a Supreme Court that follows the rule of law, protects people's freedoms, and abides by the highest ethical standards.  
 VOTING RIGHTS  
 The right to vote and to have your vote counted is the threshold of American democracy and liberty. Without it, nothing is possible; with it, anything is. Decades after a generation of civil rights leaders faced fire hoses and batons, were brutally beaten and even died to secure this fundamental right, it remains under assault.  
 Since their first days in office, President Biden and Vice President Harris have taken action to protect the sacred right to vote in free, fair, and secure elections, especially for communities of color who have been historically disenfranchised.  
 Within the first 100 days of his presidency, President Biden signed an executive order directing an all-of-government effort to promote access to voting. Agencies have taken historic action to help veterans, college students, Native Americans, and other underserved communities register to vote.  
 Because laws are only as effective as their enforcement, the Department of Justice has more than doubled its staff dedicated to enforcing voting rights laws. And because the American people deserve to have faith in their elections, President Biden signed the Electoral Count Reform Act to preserve the will of the people and to protect against the type of attempts to overturn our elections that led to the January 6 insurrection.  
 Congress must restore the protections of the Voting Rights Act and take additional steps to ensure access to the ballot box. Democrats will pass and President Biden will sign the John R. Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act and the Freedom to Vote Act to fully secure the right to vote in every state, ensure fair congressional maps for every American, modernize and secure our elections, and curtail the corrupting influence of money in politics.  
 STOPPING THE INFLUENCE OF SPECIAL INTERESTS  
 Too much money flows in the shadows to influence our elections. Advocacy groups can run ads on issues attacking or supporting a candidate right until Election Day without disclosing who's paying for that ad. Too often, powerful special interests use front groups to run these ads to win at any cost. Even foreign entities that aren't allowed to contribute to political campaigns use dark money loopholes to try to influence our elections.  
 To fight back, President Biden has called for immediate passage of the DISCLOSE Act, which will require advocacy groups that run ads to influence elections to disclose donors who contribute more than $10,000, and ban foreign entities from contributing to them. Under President Biden's leadership, the FEC has also finalized a rule expanding political advertising disclaimer requirements for online public communications.  
 Democrats will also fight to strengthen public financing with small-dollar matching for all federal candidates and crack down on foreign nationals who try to influence elections. We will keep super PACs wholly independent of campaigns and parties and pass a constitutional amendment that will ban all private financing from federal elections. Democrats will end "dark money" by requiring full disclosure of contributors and ban 501(c)(4) organizations from spending on elections. And, to curb the influence of special interests in our elections, Democrats will prohibit corporate PACs and lobbyists from donating to anyone they lobby.  
 Trust in democracy is critical to protecting democracy. Democrats will adopt ethics reforms to ensure every American can feel confident that their government is working for them, not for special interests. Democrats will enact legislation to apply similar standards to Members of Congress. Democrats will create a federal ethics commission to strengthen good governance laws, like those requiring financial and lobbying disclosure. Democrats will require all federal candidates to disclose at least 10 years of tax returns. To ensure tax dollars go to work for the American people, not for special interests, Democrats will reestablish merit-based federal contracting and ban political appointees from interfering in grantmaking. And to ensure that policy decisions are guided by what's best for the American people, not by special interests, Democrats will strengthen laws that regulate lobbying by foreign governments and lower the threshold for registering as a federal lobbyist.  
 REPRODUCTIVE FREEDOM  
 Over the past two years, more than 20 states have imposed extreme and dangerous abortion bans – many of which include no exception even for rape or incest – that put the health and lives of women in jeopardy, force women to travel hundreds of miles for care, and threaten to criminalize doctors for providing the health care that their patients need and that they are trained to provide. Laws that limit access to contraception and to fertility treatments like IVF. Laws that were first adopted in the 1800s.  
 More than one in three women of reproductive age, and more than half of Black women and 40 percent of Latinas, now live under an abortion ban. Today, our daughters have fewer rights than their grandmothers.  
 President Biden, Vice President Harris, and Democrats are fighting back to restore reproductive freedom for every woman in every state. President Biden signed three executive orders and a presidential memorandum to stand up for reproductive rights. The Administration is protecting access to abortion, including by creating a new path for pharmacies to dispense FDA-approved medication abortion and defending access in court. It is expanding reproductive health care for service members, veterans, and their family members. The Administration is defending access to emergency medical care, including clarifying that federal law on emergency care preempts state abortion bans, educating patients on their rights, making it easier for patients who have been denied emergency care to file a complaint, and ensuring hospitals meet their legal obligations to offer care. It is challenging threats from Republicans to prosecute people who help women travel to a different state for abortion care, and helping states expand access under Medicaid for women who travel from states with bans. We are safeguarding patients' and providers' privacy, including by strengthening HIPAA protections, cracking down on the illegal sharing of personal information, strengthening consumer data protections, and issuing guidance to protect student privacy in this area. And we are ensuring access to accurate information and legal resources, including by launching ReproductiveRights.gov and convening more than 200 lawyers and advocates to support abortion-related legal defense services.  
 Nine in 10 women have used contraception, and Democrats are also working to expand access to birth control. Under President Biden's leadership, the FDA approved the first over-the-counter daily oral contraceptive, making birth control easier than ever to access. President Biden has also built on the Affordable Care Act to make a broader range of contraceptives available to women at no cost through their health insurance. The Administration has boosted access to free and low-cost services through the Title X family planning program, and expanded access to birth control for service members and through the VA.  
 WOMEN'S RIGHTS  
 Despite the progress we've made since our nation's founding, there is more work ahead to knock down the barriers that stand in the way of women and girls realizing their full potential. In a country founded on freedom and equality, nothing is more fundamental.  
 No one should be discriminated against based on their sex; and we, as a nation, must affirm and protect women's full equality. Democrats will fight to make the Equal Rights Amendment the law of the land.  
 When women thrive in the workplace, our economy is strong. Under President Biden's leadership, more women are in the workforce than ever, matching the lowest annual women's unemployment rate since 1953, with the narrowest gender pay gap on record. Democrats passed and President Biden signed the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act to protect women's rights on the job, ensuring that pregnant and postpartum workers have the basic, long overdue protections they need to stay in the workforce while pregnant and as new mothers. Democrats also passed the PUMP Act, so more nursing mothers have access to break time and a private place to pump. To promote pay equity and curb pay discrimination, the Administration ended the use of salary history in pay-setting decisions for federal workers and will expand this protection to most contractors. As the President's economic agenda creates millions of jobs, he is making sure that women benefit, including through his Million Women in Construction Initiative, registered apprenticeship programs, and the Good Jobs Initiative. He has also expanded opportunities for women entrepreneurs, increasing SBA loans to women-owned businesses by 70 percent, and awarding more federal contracting dollars to women-owned small businesses than ever. And because affordable child care is critical to expanding opportunities for parents, especially women, President Biden helped hundreds of thousands of child care providers keep their doors open to millions of children and saved families thousands of dollars on child care costs. The President also signed into law new protections to support survivors and address sexual assault and sexual harassment in the workplace.  
 There is more work to do. Democrats will work to pass the Paycheck Fairness Act and end pay inequity not just in the federal workforce, but throughout the economy with penalties for companies that discriminate against women. And, we will guarantee affordable, high-quality child care from birth until kindergarten, with most families paying just $10 a day — and make it free for low-income families. We will protect the health and dignity of older adults and people with disabilities by improving long-term care and supporting family caregivers, and we will invest in care infrastructure by raising wages and the quality of care worker jobs. We will establish a national, comprehensive paid family and medical leave program to ensure that all workers, including women, can take the time they need to bond with a new child, care for a loved one, or recover from an illness.  
 We are also closing fundamental gaps in women's health care and addressing the maternal health crisis. Women in America are dying at a higher rate from pregnancy-related causes than women in any other wealthy nation, especially Black and Native women. Vice President Harris came into office as a key leader on maternal health and continues to lead the fight for improved maternal health outcomes, elevating the issue nationally and convening experts and activists to find solutions. The American Rescue Plan gave States the option to provide a full year of postpartum coverage to women on Medicaid, increasing it from just 60 days. Vice President Harris challenged all states to provide a full year of coverage; and 46 states, the District of Columbia, and the U.S. Virgin Islands now do. The Administration also expanded access to maternity care coordinators for U.S. military veterans, from eight weeks to 12 months postpartum. And, it established the first-ever national maternal health and safety standards for hospitals across the country, which include requirements that hospitals have resuscitation equipment in labor and delivery rooms and proper protocols and supplies for emergency deliveries. The Administration released a blueprint outlining other federal actions to combat maternal mortality and improve maternal health. And it launched the National Maternal Mental Health Hotline which has helped tens of thousands of women.  
 For too long, women haven't been able to get the answers they need when it comes to their health—from cardiovascular disease to autoimmune diseases to menopause-related conditions. To pioneer the next generation of medical discoveries, the President and the First Lady launched the first-ever White House Initiative on Women's Health Research, which aims to fundamentally change how we approach and fund women's health research in the United States. It includes a $100 million commitment to fund the ARPA-H Sprint for Women's Health, a $200 million National Institutes of Health-wide effort to catalyze interdisciplinary research, and more than 20 other new actions and commitments to advance women's health research and especially research on menopause-related conditions and women's midlife health. And President Biden signed an executive order to direct the most comprehensive set of executive actions ever taken to expand and improve research on women's health.  
 Democrats will continue working to address the maternal health crisis and ensure every American has access to high-quality, culturally competent care before, during, and after pregnancy. And we will continue to invest in women's health research to galvanize new research and breakthroughs on a wide range of topics.  
 RACIAL EQUITY  
 Since Day One, the Administration has championed an ambitious equity and racial justice agenda to ensure the full and fair participation of all communities in our economy and democracy, and to ensure the promise of America for everyone, including Black, Latino, and Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Americans.  
 Democrats are building a strong economy from the bottom up and the middle out. Black and Latino unemployment has hit record lows under President Biden, and the AANHPI employment rate is at its highest since 2008. Wages are rising faster than prices, and the greatest gains have gone to the low-paid workers.  
 The ideal of equal opportunity is the bedrock of American democracy, but our laws, public policies, and institutions too often exacerbate disparities or deny equal opportunity to individuals and communities. President Biden signed two Executive Orders to change that, including by increasing access to federal contracting dollars, capital, and lending programs for small disadvantaged businesses; reducing discrimination in the housing market; protecting overburdened communities from environmental harms; addressing historic disinvestment and infrastructure neglect; addressing health and health care disparities; rooting out educational inequities and preserving pathways to equal opportunity; tackling persistent poverty and building economic prosperity in rural communities; promoting equity and fairness in the justice system; combating bias, discrimination and hate-based violence; and bolstering proactive enforcement that protects the civil rights of all Americans.  
 Democrats expanded the Child Tax Credit to millions more families, slashing the child poverty rate in half to record lows, including for Black, Latino, and AANHPI children. We'll keep fighting to make that expansion permanent. The Administration has also expanded food assistance to those in need, providing the typical low-income family of four about $2,000 more for groceries each year by improving SNAP; and it launched a summer food benefits program that serves nearly 21 million children. Democrats will keep working to increase food security, including through WIC and Summer EBT, and by bringing back the enhanced Child Tax Credit.  
 Starting a business is part of the American Dream, and Democrats are working to make that possible for everyone, boosting access to capital and loans, and to business through government contracting work. Today, Black Americans are starting new businesses at the fastest rate in 30 years; and Latinos at the fastest rate in over a decade. Since the pandemic, the share of Black households owning a business has more than doubled, Latino business ownership is up 40 percent, and women own a record share of businesses. The Administration set a goal that 15 percent of federal contracts go to small disadvantaged businesses (SDBs)and will continue expanding these opportunities for SDBs in a second term. The Small Business Administration (SBA) has doubled the number and dollar value of loans awarded to Black-owned businesses, and doubled the rate of SBA-backed loans to Latino-owned small businesses. We eliminated the ban on SBA lending to people on probation or parole, and banned "the box" on SBA loan forms, so that people are no longer asked about their past records when applying for a loan. And, the Minority Business Development Agency, now a permanent part of the Commerce Department, is opening new offices and building partnerships with HBCUs, in its work to help minority-owned businesses across the country to overcome barriers and grow.  
 The Administration has also increased investment in Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFIs) and Minority Depository Institutions (MDIs), and issued new licenses for nonbank lenders, helping more people in underserved communities to get capital and start businesses. As part of this work, Vice President Harris launched the Economic Opportunity Coalition bringing together major corporations and foundations to align public and private sector investments with a particular focus on driving private investment in CDFIs and MDIs. By investing in community lenders, we're driving an estimated $130 billion more in loans to Black and Latino communities over the next decade. Going forward, we'll double that funding for CDFIs, and expand and make permanent a New Markets Tax Credit, to encourage development in places too long left behind.  
 The robust economic recovery that President Biden is leading is also working to close the persistent racial wealth gap that has plagued our country for generations. Today, Black wealth has climbed 60 percent since before the pandemic; Latino homeownership is higher than before the pandemic, and median Latino household wealth is up 19 percent in the last three years.  
 Homeownership is one of the most important ways that families can build wealth. The Administration launched a first-of-its-kind task force to end pernicious bias in the home appraisal process, which has for too long undervalued Black- and Latino-owned homes. Since then, the likelihood that a home in a Black community is undervalued compared to a home in a white community has been cut by more than 40 percent.  
 Democrats are working to bring down housing costs across the board. The American Rescue Plan kept 8 million families in their homes throughout the pandemic; and the President has since introduced the most ambitious housing agenda in 50 years, with plans to boost supply, lower rent, and make homeownership more affordable. It includes down payment assistance for first-generation homeowners and a mortgage relief tax credit for first-time homebuyers, which will disproportionately benefit communities of color.  
 We are also working to connect communities that have been isolated from opportunity for too long. Highways and rail lines have disproportionately torn through Black, Latino,and low-income areas; displacing and segregating residents and businesses; stifling economic growth and investment; and cutting people off from groceries, jobs, and health care. Through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, we are righting those historic wrongs by investing in new roads, bridges, railways, and public transit and more,  
 We know that no child's future should be determined by their parents' income or ZIP code. We've made historic investments in education in the last four years, boosting funding for Title I and community schools, investing in thousands of new school counselors and mental health providers, and supporting efforts to boost attendance and expand tutoring and summer programs. We passed the most significant gun safety law in 30 years, an important first step toward protecting all our children from the scourge of gun violence. We're supporting students with disabilities, and working to end physical restraint and prevent discrimination, bullying, and harassment. And, where MAGA extremists are politicizing our classrooms, banning books, and trying to erase history, we are fighting back, including by appointing a federal coordinator to address the threat these bans pose to students' civil rights. We're also investing in recruiting and training teachers from all communities, including in partnership with HBCUs, MSIs, and TCUs; and helping them to get the pay that they deserve. It matters to children when they see someone who looks like them at the front of a classroom.  
 Democrats are also working to make college more affordable, and to relieve the crippling burden of student debt, which disproportionately falls on students of color. Black students take on 85 percent more debt than white peers, and both Black and Latino borrowers are more likely to hold debt many years longer after graduation, deferring their dreams to buy a home, build a family, or start a business. That's why the President's action to cancel $167 billion in student loans for nearly five million Americans, and to ease repayment for millions of others is such an important step in leveling the playing field for everyone.  
 To help more low-income students afford college in the first place, the Administration has also increased the maximum Pell Grant by $900, and will double it in the future. We're expanding access to free community college; providing subsidized tuition for children from families earning less than $125,000 a year who attend HBCUs, TCUs, Hispanic- and Minority Serving Institutions. The Administration has made historic investments in those schools, as well as in registered apprenticeships, to train Americans everywhere for the careers of the future.  
 Democrats are also committed to ending generations of environmental injustices that have left communities of color bearing the brunt of toxic pollution and climate change, decaying infrastructure, and inadequate services. The Administration is delivering on its Justice40 Initiative to deliver 40 percent of the overall benefits of our investments in infrastructure, clean energy and manufacturing investments to disadvantaged communities. Today, we're replacing every toxic lead pipe in the country, accelerating Superfund cleanups, cracking down on polluters that have poisoned their neighborhoods air, water, and soil for too long. We're making sure that every community benefits from home energy tax credits, low-cost solar panels, and other programs that can save families money while reducing emissions. And we're investing in climate-resilient infrastructure that will protect every part of this country from extreme weather and other consequences of climate change.  
 Democrats will also keep fighting to address disparities in health care and make sure every American has access to quality, affordable health care. We've continued to protect and expand the Affordable Care Act, expanding coverage to more Americans ever in history; and we're taking historic steps to lower the cost of prescription drugs — like capping insulin at $35 a month and prescription drug costs at $2,000 a year for seniors — and we'll keep fighting to expand those caps for every American. We will keep pushing to provide Medicaid-like coverage to people in states that have not expanded Medicaid, and to make it easier for parents to keep children enrolled in Medicaid and CHIP. We'll defend all women's right to reproductive health care. As highlighted above, we're tackling the crisis of maternal mortality, expanding Medicaid to cover women for a full year postpartum and investing in a diverse workforce to support pregnant and postpartum women. And, we will address the disproportionate impact of infectious diseases, including HIV and Hepatitis C, and expand access to PrEP to end the HIV epidemic.  
 We have a long way to go to realize the full promise of America, but we are committed as a party to continuing the work to build a nation where all people are not only created equal, but treated equally throughout their lives. To determine how best to right historical wrongs, Democrats support Congress executing a study of reparations and the continuing impacts of slavery.  
 LGBTQI+  
 For generations, LGBTQI+ Americans have summoned the courage to live authentically and proudly, even when it meant putting their lives and livelihoods at risk. LGBTQI+ Americans continue to inspire and bring hope to all people seeking a life true to who they are, and to enrich every aspect of American life. But the fight for equality is far from over, as the LGBTQI+ community continues to face attacks and bigotry in states across the country. Democrats are committed to defending LGBTQI+ rights.  
 When a person can be married in the morning and thrown out of a restaurant for being gay in the afternoon, something is still wrong. That's why Democrats will pass the Equality Act to codify protections for LGBTQI+ Americans and their families. We will prohibit employment discrimination in the federal government, including contractors, and make federally-funded seniors programs LGBTQI+ inclusive. And we have and will continue to make great strides in protecting LGBTQI+ children and prospective parents in the adoption and foster care systems.  
 President Biden has delivered on his promise to ban discrimination in health care on the basis of gender identity and sexual orientation. He has protected transgender Americans' access to health care and coverage, including medically necessary gender-affirming care; and implemented a national strategy to end the HIV epidemic in this country. Democrats will build on this progress to expand mental health and suicide prevention services for LGBTQI+ people.  
 As President Biden has said, LGBTQI+ youth are some of the bravest people he knows, and he has made it a priority to fight for them. The Administration is combating the dangerous and cruel practice of so-called "conversion therapy." Democrats have invested in supporting LGBTQI+ youth mental health, including through the historic Bipartisan Safer Communities Act. President Biden has also taken action to support LGBTQI+ youth in foster care; and is fighting book bans that censor LGBTQI+ content. He signed an executive order recommitting the federal government to guarantee educational environments free from sex discrimination, including on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity. He signed a historic executive order to address discriminatory legislative attacks against LGBTQI+ children and families, directing key agencies to protect families and children; safeguard health care and programs designed to prevent youth suicide; and support LGBTQI+ children and families by launching a new initiative to protect foster youth, prevent homelessness, and improve access to federal programs. And, he established the White House Task Force to Address Online Harassment and Abuse to help fight online hate that disproportionately targets LGBTQI+ people, including youth.  
 Democrats will continue to fight for LGBTQI+ youth by building on President Biden's historic actions to ban so-called "conversion therapy"; protecting LGBTQI+ children from bullying and discrimination; guaranteeing that transgender students are treated fairly and with respect at school; and ending the homeless crisis among LGBTQI+ youth.  
 LGBTQI+ Americans have long faced threats to their safety just for being who they are. President Biden launched the LGBTQI+ Community Safety Partnership to provide community safety trainings, support health care providers who serve the LGBTQI+ community, and support LGBTQI+ communities to report hate crimes, and build cross-community partnerships to address hate-fueled violence. The Justice Department is taking an all-of-department approach to protecting LGBTQI+ rights. Democrats will end violence against transgender Americans, especially Black and brown transgender women, and prioritize the investigation of hate crimes against trans and non-binary people.  
 DISABILITY  
 People with disabilities have long strengthened our economy and expanded our nation's possibilities. And, groundbreaking legislation like the Americans with Disabilities Act and the Rehabilitation Act have made significant strides toward equal opportunity for people with disabilities. But there is more work to do. People with disabilities are three times less likely to have a job, and when they do, they are often paid less money for doing the same work.  
 Democrats are taking action to fix that. President Biden signed an executive order establishing a government-wide commitment to advancing equality and equity in federal employment, including for people with disabilities. The Labor Department is protecting workers with disabilities and fighting to end unjust employment practices. The Administration is helping state and local governments, businesses, and nonprofits access federal funds to hire more disabled Americans. And President Biden is making sure his Administration looks like America, appointing people with disabilities to positions all across our government. He is making the federal government a model employer when it comes to wages, accommodations, and opportunities to advance for people with disabilities. And he's helping young people with disabilities transition from education to employment through the Disability Innovation Fund.  
 President Biden is also working to improve health care for people with disabilities. The Administration released a rule barring providers from denying medical treatments related to organ donations or lifesaving care for disabled Americans based on their disability alone. It launched long COVID clinical trials and created the Office of Long COVID Research and Practice. The National Institutes of Health designated people with disabilities a "health disparity population," unlocking new resources for research. President Biden also signed an executive order increasing access to quality care and supporting caregivers; as well as historic legislation that expands home- and community-based services under Medicaid.  
 Accessible public spaces are essential to ensuring equal opportunity for people with disabilities. Democrats have invested in accessible infrastructure, including rail station accessibility and actions to make airports and airplanes more accessible. And Democrats passed and President Biden signed the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, which expanded access to affordable broadband, an especially important step for people with disabilities.  
 Democrats will enforce laws that ensure equal opportunity for people with disabilities: the ADA, IDEA, the Fair Housing Act, the Civil Rights of Institutionalized Persons Act, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, the Mental Health Parity Act, and the Help America Vote Act. We oppose efforts to weaken the ADA and build on the ACA to prevent health care discrimination. Democrats will enforce the Olmstead integration mandate and enforce non-discrimination protections in health care, employment, education, housing, voting. We will promote equitable treatment of students with disabilities so every child with disabilities can thrive. And to support people with disabilities and their families, we will support home and community-based care and end the subminimum wage.  
 TRIBAL NATIONS  
 President Biden's relationship with Tribal Nations and their citizens is built on respect for Tribal sovereignty and self-governance, honoring federal trust and treaty responsibilities, protecting Tribal homelands, and conducting regular, meaningful, and robust consultation with Tribal Nations.  
 Native communities pass down rich cultures, knowledge, traditions, and ways of life. But throughout our history, Native peoples' cultures, identities, and governments were not always seen as a part of this Nation but as a threat to it, and they faced violence and devastation that cost countless lives, tore families apart, and caused lasting damage to Tribal communities and institutions. Despite centuries of violence and oppression, Native peoples remain resilient and proud. Today, Native Americans are essential to the fabric of the United States.  
 Since President Biden took office, he has helped champion a new and better chapter in the story of our nation-to-nation relationships. He appointed the first Native American Secretary of the Interior, Deb Haaland, and more than 80 Native Americans hold senior Administration roles. He also relaunched Tribal Nations Summit and reestablished the White House Council on Native American Affairs. He is protecting sacred and Tribal lands, including by restoring protections for Berryessa Snow Mountain, Avi Kwa Ame, and Bears Ears and Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monuments. To further tribal self-governance and usher in a new era of self-determination, he signed a historic executive order that ensures the federal government respects the nation-to-nation relationship with tribes by ensuring maximal autonomy in funding and other steps.  
 He has invested in supporting Native families and communities: Democrats passed and President Biden signed the American Rescue Plan, which made the largest direct federal investment in Tribal Nations in history, along with additional historic funds in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and the Inflation Reduction Act. Democrats expanded the Child Tax Credit, pushing Native child poverty to a record low in 2021. We secured the first-ever advance appropriations for the Indian Health Service. And President Biden also defended the Indian Child Welfare Act and will continue doing so.  
 Democrats will continue promoting nation-to-nation partnerships with Tribal Nations. We will continue strengthening and respect for Tribal sovereignty, the federal trust responsibility, Tribal treaty rights, and Native history, including educating the federal workforce, providing best practices for sacred sites, and ensuring Native American history is recognized. Democrats will keep working to make federal resources for Tribal Nations more accessible and protect health, education, safety, and welfare in Indian Country, particularly for Native women, children, and families. We will make IHS funding mandatory. We will invest in housing in Tribal communities, and support Tribal conservation through co-stewardship of public lands and waters. We will continue to usher in the next era of Tribal self-determination. And Democrats will invest in public safety and justice, including by increasing the number of officers and investigators on the ground; address the crisis of missing and murdered Indigenous persons; and supporting VAWA programs, including a new grant program to address the missing and murdered Indigenous persons crisis.  
 COMBATING HATE & PROTECTING FREEDOM OF RELIGION  
 As President Biden often says, certain core values bring us together as Americans — and one of them is standing together against the hate, racism, bigotry, and violence that have long haunted our nation. We can and must come together regardless of our backgrounds.  
 President Biden and Vice President Harris have taken historic action to stand up to hate. President Biden signed the Emmett Till Anti-Lynching Act to finally make lynching a federal crime. He hosted the United We Stand Summit, elevating the fight against hate to the highest levels of our government. He signed COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act after AANHPI Americans faced a wave of hate during the pandemic. He has sought increased funding to improve the prevention, reporting and prosecution of hate crimes. And Democrats secured the greatest funding increase in history for bolstering the security of nonprofits, including houses of worship.  
 President Biden has been a strong and unequivocal voice speaking out against rising antisemitism in America. The Administration released the first-ever National Strategy to Counter Antisemitism, outlining a whole-of-society effort, including unprecedented, coordinated, and bold actions across government agencies, and calls to action for Congress, state and local governments, companies, technology platforms, and others. As part of that strategy, the Administration clarified, for the first time in writing, that Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibits certain forms of antisemitic, Islamophobic, and related discrimination, including discrimination by national origin, in federally funded programs and activities. President Biden continues to take bold action to combat antisemitism on college campuses. And he has prioritized fighting antisemitism abroad by appointing Deborah Lipstadt as U.S. Special Envoy to monitor and combat antisemitism, an ambassador-level position.  
 President Biden knows that Islamophobia has no place in our society. Across his Administration, agencies are taking action to fight Islamophobia and support Muslim Americans. His Administration is developing the first-ever U.S. National Strategy to Counter Islamophobia and Related Forms of Bias and Discrimination, including hate against Arab, Sikh and South Asian Americans. He is the first president in history to recognize the International Day to Combat Islamophobia, and his Administration released a Dear Colleague Letter reminding schools, including institutions of higher learning, of their legal obligation under Title VI to address discrimination, including harassment, based on race, color or national origin, including discrimination against students who are or are perceived to be Muslim, Arab, Sikh, South Asian, Hindu or Palestinian based on shared ancestry or ethnic characteristics.  
 Democrats condemn the decades-long campaign to demonize the Muslim community and will end policies that target American Muslims as security threats. We will combat hate crimes and white nationalist terrorism. We will prioritize the investigation of hate crimes against trans and non-binary people. And we will continue to increase security at houses of worship. President Biden deeply believes everyone must be able to practice their faith without fear.  
 We will advocate for religious freedom across the world. And, we will continue to honor both religious freedom and other civil rights, not put them at war with one another. This critical work is led by Ambassador Rashad Hussain, the first Muslim to serve as Ambassador at Large for International Religious Freedom.  
 And we will continue to recognize faith communities' acts of service, which are critical pillars of their communities. That's one reason why President Biden reestablished the White House Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships — so that the government can work better with faith and community groups to serve people in need.  
 FREEDOM OF THE PRESS  
 Freedom of the press is foundational to our nation, and President Biden is committed to safeguarding it. That's why he has called for the immediate and unconditional release of journalists who have been locked up abroad for doing their jobs. He is taking action to combat crimes against journalists, strengthen security for independent media outlets, and provide legal support for investigative journalists around the world. And his Administration brought together a coalition to counter proliferation and misuse of commercial spyware.  
 ARTS & HUMANITIES  
 America is a great nation in large part because of the power of the arts and humanities that's embedded in the DNA of America. The Administration has taken historic action to support the arts, helping libraries, theaters, concert halls, and other venues stay afloat during the pandemic. The Administration has strengthened the National Endowment for the Arts, Institute of Museum and Library Services, and the National Endowment for the Humanities. President Biden also reestablished the President's Committee on the Arts and the Humanities and signed an Executive Order to make art more accessible to people from underserved communities, elevate new voices through the arts and humanities, and expand opportunities for artists and scholars. He has celebrated and elevated the arts by hosting performances and screenings, and has awarded National Humanities Medals, National Medals of Arts, and hosted Kennedy Center honorees at the White House.  
 Democrats value the humanities, arts and art education for developing imagination, creativity, innovation, and critical thinking, and for building bridges within and between our communities. We will promote arts funding and education — and we will invest in the arts and humanities accordingly. Democrats will fund the National Endowment for the Arts, the National Endowment for the Humanities, and art and music education in public schools. Democrats know that federal grants for cultural organizations, artists, scholars, library systems, museums, and state and local governments only strengthen our communities and our cultural heritage.  
 D.C., PUERTO RICO, TERRITORIES  
 President Biden, Vice President Harris, and Democrats have made historic investments in Washington, D.C., Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and American Samoa – delivering billions for infrastructure, semiconductor, clean energy, and transportation projects, and creating thousands of good jobs.  
 Democrats reject the unequal treatment of residents of D.C., Puerto Rico, and the U.S. territories. We unequivocally support statehood for D.C., which its residents overwhelmingly support but Republicans blocked from even getting a vote in the Senate.  
 Democrats also support self-determination for the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and American Samoa. We will create a Congressional task force to study equal voting rights and House representation; and we will work to ensure equal access to federal programs like veterans' benefits, the Affordable Care Act, Medicaid, and SNAP food assistance for all those eligible. Democrats support funding to improve critical health care facilities in the territories, including construction of a state-of-the-art medical complex in Guam that co-locates health agencies on a single campus for a more integrated healthcare system that will benefit the region. We will also invest in ending disparities in agriculture, economic development, education, employment, energy, health care, housing, and infrastructure, and help the U.S. territories diversify their economies. We will help them recover from natural disasters, and we will invest in expanding clean energy and water systems to be more resilient. Democrats support reimbursing U.S. territories for more migration costs, including restoring Medicaid eligibility for legal migrants under the Compacts of Free Association. And Democrats will continue to recognize the sacrifices and honor the contributions of residents who suffered because of their U.S. nationality during the Japanese occupation during World War II.  
 Democrats also recognize that millions of U.S. citizens live abroad, and we will consider their unique circumstances and challenges when shaping policy. We will work to protect their voting rights and ensure they're able to participate in the democratic process here at home.  
 Chapter Seven: Securing our Border & Fixing the Broken Immigration System  
 Since our founding, immigrants have traveled to America to pursue freedom and opportunity, to flee oppression, and to reunite with family members, and in turn have made our country stronger. President Biden has led with the conviction that we must secure our border and fix a broken immigration system decades in the making. Through it all, the United States must continue to be a beacon of hope and opportunity.  
 On his first day in office, President Biden sent Congress legislation to secure our border, fix our immigration system, and provide a pathway to citizenship for Dreamers and others. This past year, the President worked across the aisle and negotiated a bipartisan deal that included the toughest and fairest set of reforms to secure the border in decades. It would have made our country safer and made our border more secure, while treating people fairly and humanely and expanding legal immigration, consistent with our values as a nation.  
 President Biden has led a hemispheric response to the challenge of irregular migration, launching and leading the Los Angeles Declaration for Migration and Protection with 20 countries to increase enforcement, expand legal pathways to citizenship, and stabilize and integrate migrants in neighboring countries. President Biden has taken decisive action to secure our border through executive actions that have significantly restricted eligibility for asylum at the border and created innovative legal pathways to the U.S. that, when coupled with strong enforcement, have decreased illegal border crossings. Since President Biden announced new border restrictions in June 2024, the number of unlawful crossings has fallen by 40 percent, demonstrating that the policy works. He has also implemented policies that have stopped record amounts of fentanyl from crossing our border.  
 In President Biden's second term, he will push Congress to pass legislation that is consistent with our values as a nation. Legislation must secure the border, reform the asylum system, expand legal immigration; and keep families together by supporting a pathway for long-term undocumented individuals, improving the work authorization process, and securing the future of the DACA program.  
 President Biden has taken action to advance each of these goals, but lasting, comprehensive reforms require congressional action.  
 SECURING THE BORDER  
 The President has already taken steps to increase border resources, working within the limits imposed by Congress. He has increased the number of agents and officers on the southwest border to over 24,000, added thousands of additional support personnel, surged thousands of law enforcement and other personnel from across the Department of Homeland Security, and secured the first significant increase of Border Patrol agents in more than a decade. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law modernized border stations and land border ports of entry. The Administration is providing support to cities and states, on the border and across the country, that are sheltering migrants. He has also taken executive actions, including launching expedited immigration court dockets, to more quickly resolve immigration cases for those crossing the Southern border and remove those who do not establish a legal basis to remain.  
 President Biden has repeatedly asked Congress for additional resources to secure our border, including increases for personnel that are critically needed to quickly deliver consequences at the border to those who cross unlawfully. The Department of Homeland Security requested funds to hire 1,300 Border Patrol agents and 1,600 asylum officers. Meanwhile, the bipartisan Senate bill would have provided an additional 1,500 Customs and Border Protection personnel and 4,300 asylum officers. Congressional Republicans continue to play partisan politics with the security of our border instead of working with Democrats to fund these critically needed resources for DHS and border communities.  
 In President Biden's second term, he will push Congress to provide the resources and authorities that we need to secure the border. This includes additional border patrol agents, immigration judges, asylum officers, cutting-edge inspection machines to help detect and stop the flow of fentanyl, and funding for cities and states that are sheltering migrants.  
 Reform the Asylum System  
 Congress must pass legislation to reform our asylum system modeled after the bipartisan Senate deal so that we can quickly identify and provide protection to those who are fleeing persecution and ensure it is not used as an alternative to legal immigration by others. Democrats believe that asylum processing should be efficient and fair, and that those who are determined not to have a legal basis to remain should be quickly removed. In order to achieve this, we need Congress to strengthen requirements for valid asylum claims. Congress must also finally fund a sufficient number of asylum officers and immigration judges to facilitate timely decisions. In addition, asylum seekers, especially the most vulnerable, including unaccompanied children, should have access to legal counsel. Individuals who pass this strengthened initial screening and are determined to be likely to qualify for asylum should be given quick access to work authorization while they go through a streamlined court process.  
 After Congress repeatedly failed to act, President Biden announced executive action that significantly curtailed asylum eligibility at the border when crossings reach a certain threshold and strengthened our ability to impose timely consequences for crossing the border illegally. Those who attempt to cross into the United States unlawfully are being quickly returned to their home countries, as well as Mexico. Since the President took this action, unlawful entries between ports of entry declined by more than half. And, President Biden is changing the asylum process to more quickly screen and identify individuals who pose a threat to national security or public safety so that they can be swiftly removed.  
 Temporary Emergency Authority to Shut Down the Border  
 When the system is overwhelmed, the President should have emergency authority to expel migrants who are crossing unlawfully and stop processing asylum claims except for those using a safe and orderly process at Ports of Entry. The authority should be accompanied by humanitarian exceptions for vulnerable populations including unaccompanied children and victims of trafficking.  
 Congress should also dedicate resources to detain and remove individuals quickly, and rapidly process those who cannot be detained in a non-custodial setting under government supervision. Those who pose a threat to public safety or national security must be identified and removed as quickly as possible.  
 Fighting Human Trafficking  
 We need more resources and Congressional authorization to increase penalties to prosecute and punish human smugglers and traffickers who prey upon families and migrants. President Biden has already taken numerous steps to go after these bad actors including by revoking the visas of private sector CEOs and sanctioning government officials who profit from migrants coming to the U.S. unlawfully, and by expanding efforts to dismantle human smuggling and prosecute offenders.  
 President Biden also established Joint Task Force Alpha, a law enforcement task force that marshals the investigative and prosecutorial resources of the Department of Justice, in partnership with the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), to enhance U.S. enforcement efforts against the most prolific and dangerous human smuggling and trafficking groups operating in Mexico and the Northern Triangle countries of Guatemala, El Salvador, and Honduras. Joint Task Force Alpha has delivered significant results, including: over 240 U.S. convictions against leaders, organizers, and significant facilitators of human trafficking and substantial seizures and forfeitures of assets including cash, property, and firearms.  
 Cracking Down on Trafficking Illicit Fentanyl  
 President Biden has made fighting the trafficking of fentanyl a top priority. He has seized record amounts of fentanyl at our border— and arrested more individuals for fentanyl-related crimes in the last two years than in the previous five years combined—and secured funding for more cutting-edge inspection machines to help detect fentanyl at our southwest border. He also issued an Executive Order to go after the global illicit fentanyl trade, which led to the imposition of sanctions on some 300 persons and entities. President Biden has also continued working with Mexico to extradite and prosecute key fentanyl traffickers, and negotiated the resumption of bilateral cooperation on counternarcotics with China, which had been stalled since 2019. As a result of these efforts, the number of fentanyl-related deaths has started to decline for the first time in five years.  
 In his second term, President Biden will work with Congress to deploy more cutting-edge inspection machines to help detect fentanyl at our ports of entry. He will also leverage all resources of the federal government to stop tech platforms from being used for criminal conduct, including sales of dangerous drugs like fentanyl.  
 EXPANDING LEGAL IMMIGRATION & DETERRING ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION  
 America is a nation of immigrants. The legal immigration framework was last updated in 1990 and does not reflect the needs of our country in the 21st century. Many immigrants today are forced to wait years, and often decades, to immigrate lawfully to the United States. A robust immigration system with accessible lawful pathways and penalties for illegal immigration alleviates pressure at the border and upholds our values. The U.S. Citizenship Act would permanently increase family-sponsored and employment-based immigration. The bipartisan border legislation would increase the number of immigrant visas that are available by 250,000 over 5 years.  
 Legal Immigration Pathways  
 While we wait for Congress to act, President Biden has used his authority to provide orderly, legal immigration pathways for those fleeing violence, and decrease the number of illegal border crossings. The Biden-Harris Administration established a humanitarian parole process for Cubans, Haitians, Nicaraguans, and Venezuelans (CHNV), which allows people from these four countries who have a sponsor in the U.S. and who pass a background check to come to the U.S. for a period of two years to live and work lawfully. Border encounters from these nationalities decreased by 89 percent in the first six months after CHNV was put in place—incentivizing migrants to stay in place, rather than make the dangerous journey to our southwest border.  
 He also established New Family Reunification Parole Processes to allow eligible individuals from El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Colombia, Cuba and Haiti to be reunited with family in the United States while they wait to complete the process for securing lawful permanent residence.  
 President Biden has worked closely with partners throughout the region – including, most importantly, the government of Mexico – to undertake coordinated actions to stop the flow of migrants before they reach our border. And he has supported our regional partners through the LA Declaration process – working together on coordinated enforcement, development of lawful pathways, and efforts to address the root causes of migration.  
 As outlined in the U.S. Citizenship Act, Congress must act to increase the number of family-sponsored and employment-based immigrant visas that are available each fiscal year so that people aren't forced to wait decades for a visa. Legislation should also include provisions to ensure that children who came as dependents on their parents' temporary visas can remain in the United States with their families, even after turning 21, provisions to streamline applications of at-risk Afghan allies to the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program, and a process for Afghan evacuees to have their status adjusted to lawful permanent resident.  
 Legislation should also extend work authorization to those who utilize lawful visa pathways so that families can more quickly get on the path to economic self-sufficiency. This includes K-1, K-2, and K-3 nonimmigrant visa holders (fiancés, spouses, children of U.S. citizens), and the spouses and children of high-skilled temporary visa holders. And, Democrats will explore opportunities to identify or create work permits for immigrants, long-term undocumented residents, and legally processed asylum seekers in our country.  
 Congress should also increase the number of visas for the Special Immigrant Juvenile Status program for abused, abandoned, or neglected youth, building on actions that the Administration has already taken to provide deferred action and work authorization for juveniles in this program.  
 Keeping Families Together and Supporting Long-Term Undocumented Individuals, including Dreamers  
 President Biden also announced new actions to keep an estimated 500,000 American families together by allowing certain noncitizen spouses and children of U.S. citizens who have been in the country for 10 years or more to apply for lawful permanent residence—a status they're already eligible for—without leaving the country first. The average beneficiary has been in the United States for more than 20 years, and will finally be able to come out of the shadows and fully contribute to our communities.  
 Congress must pass legislation to provide a pathway to citizenship for Dreamers, farmworkers, careworkers, and other long-term undocumented individuals who contribute to this country, by paying taxes and contributing to their local economies, and in his second term, President Biden will continue pressing them to do so.  
 Fast, Efficient Immigration Decisions  
 Immigration officers have to make the right decisions, and they also have to make them quickly and efficiently. Under the Administration, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) has cut processing times significantly for those awaiting work authorization and ensured that immigration decisions – including naturalization and work permit applications – are made fairly and as quickly as possible. As of April 2024, the Administration achieved the lowest wait time for naturalization since 2016 and the lowest wait time for work authorization documents from certain categories of applicants since 2017. In FY 2023, USCIS administered the oath of allegiance to more than 878,500 new U.S. citizens, including 12,000 members of the military, effectively eliminating the backlog of naturalization applications. It also reduced the median processing time for naturalization from 10.5 months to 6.1 months.  
 The Administration has also partnered with state governments and non-profit groups to host Work Authorization Clinics, which have eased the burden on American communities by helping migrants support their families and move out of emergency shelter into more stable housing options. It will also help to fund community-based organizations that host clinics to assist with immigration cases.  
 To make scheduling appointments at U.S. ports of entry safer and more orderly, the Administration launched CBPOne, a free online tool available to migrants in parts of Mexico. Scheduling appointments makes the process at our border safer and more orderly, and the advance information that is submitted to CBP creates a more efficient and streamlined process for CBP and for individuals. CBPOne has increased administrative processing capacity fivefold since its introduction.  
 Chapter Eight: Advancing the President's Unity Agenda  
 Since the day he took office, President Biden promised to be a president for all Americans. He knows that we agree on a lot more than we disagree on.  
 During his first State of the Union, President Biden outlined a unity agenda to make progress solving big challenges that Americans have in common: beating the opioid epidemic, tackling the mental health crisis, holding Big Tech accountable, ending cancer as we know it, and meeting our nation's sacred obligation to veterans.  
 Under President Biden's leadership, Democrats worked across the aisle to make real progress on these critical issues. We're providing life-saving treatment for opioid use disorder to end the epidemic, making historic investments in mental health care to help struggling Americans, establishing new high standards for AI safety and protecting American privacy, bringing together providers, insurers, and researchers to work toward ending cancer, and passed the PACT Act to expand health care benefits to veterans.  
 BEATING THE OPIOID EPIDEMIC  
 For too long, the scourge of opioids has torn through our communities, ripping apart families and shattering lives. Our nation's opioid epidemic impacts Americans in every corner of the country, from small towns to large cities to Tribal lands. Far too many Americans have lost loved ones to addiction and overdose.  
 The Biden-Harris Administration is strengthening prevention, investing in treatment, and expanding recovery support services.  
 The Administration has increased the number of medical providers who can initiate treatment from 129,000 to 2 million and made historic investments in the State Opioid Response program to help states deliver free treatment services to over 1.2 million people and enabled States to reverse more than 500,000 overdoses. To curb opioid overdoses, the Administration is making naloxone, an overdose-prevention drug, available over-the-counter at grocery stores and pharmacies. They also took steps to increase access to naloxone at federal facilities, and ended a requirement for length of addiction before entering treatment. Democrats will continue these critical investments in life-saving medication and care for Americans struggling with addiction and most at risk of overdose.  
 INVESTING IN MENTAL HEALTH  
 The pandemic exacerbated feelings of sadness, isolation, and loneliness across the country and strained our health care system, including mental health services. President Biden, Vice President Harris, and Democrats know mental health care is health care.  
 For millions of Americans, that essential mental health care is out of reach. In 2020, less than half of all adults with a mental illness diagnosis received care for it and it's worse for kids – nearly 70 percent of children who need mental health care cannot get it. That's why Democrats are taking steps to dramatically expand access to mental health care in America.  
 The Administration launched 988,the National Suicide & Crisis Lifeline, which has connected nearly 10 million Americans in crisis to immediate, confidential, and free support from trained counselors. And, the National Maternal Mental Health Hotline has received more than 30,000 calls and texts, to help mothers and their loved ones navigate mental health issues. Democrats will push to expand 988 to handle increased capacity and serve more Americans.  
 At the same time, we must make it easier for all Americans to access high-quality mental health and substance use treatment by recruiting and training more professionals to deliver culturally and linguistically competent, high-quality behavioral health care; and by strengthening coverage across all health plans. And we must extend workforce development and incentive programs. The Administration is delivering $1 billion to hire or train 14,000 school-based mental health counselors – the largest investment in school-based mental health in history – thanks to the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act. And, it is delivering additional resources to support students who need mental health care.  
 As mental health care becomes increasingly expensive, Democrats are pushing for permanent funding for Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinics, which provide 24/7 crisis care and treatment for mental health and substance use disorders, regardless of individuals' ability to pay. And, the President is calling for additional resources to connect more Americans to affordable care at work and at school.  
 President Biden, Vice President Harris, and Democrats are working to ensure full mental health parity so that mental health care is covered the same as physical health care. We're strengthening mental health parity requirements and closing insurance loopholes for the more than 150 million Americans with private health insurance. And, the President is calling on Congress to expand Medicare's coverage for mental health care, applying the same parity protections to Medicare beneficiaries.  
 PROTECTING KIDS ONLINE, STRENGTHENING AMERICANS' DATA PRIVACY, & PROMOTING COMPETITION  
 Tech platforms and companies help keep us connected, inspire ideas and innovation, and create a global marketplace. At the same time, they collect, share, and exploit data; risk our children's mental health; and deepen extremism and polarization. There is growing scientific evidence for what so many Americans already know: Social media and other online platforms can affect our mental health and well-being – particularly for our kids. In addition, a handful of dominant tech platforms and companies increasingly control much of the market, allowing them to exercise enormous power over Americans' daily lives – and, too often, use that power to exclude competitors and undermine consumers and innovation.  
 President Biden believes that all companies, including technology companies, should be held accountable for the harm they cause. The president has raised the alarm that social media and other platforms have allowed abusive and even criminal conduct like cyberstalking, child sexual exploitation, and non-consensual intimate images to proliferate on their sites – and called on Democrats and Republicans to unite on legislation to address these issues. The Surgeon General issued an advisory warning about the impacts of social media on youth mental health, noting that he cannot conclude social media is safe for children and adolescents. Democrats will pass bipartisan legislation to protect kids' privacy and to stop Big Tech from collecting personal data on kids and teenagers online, ban targeted advertising to children, and put stricter limits on the personal data these companies collect on all of us. And, the Administration has strengthened legal protections for survivors and victims of non-consensual intimate imagery, including those generated by AI, building on the federal civil cause of action established under the Violence Against Women Act Reauthorization of 2022.  
 President Biden has also called on Democrats and Republicans to pass bipartisan legislation to promote competition and privacy in the tech industry. Important policies include promoting interoperability between tech services and platforms, allowing users to control and transfer their data, and preventing large platforms from giving their own products and services an unfair advantage in the marketplace. We must also fundamentally reform Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act, which shields tech platforms from liability even when they host or disseminate violent or illegal content, to ensure that platforms take responsibility for the content they share.  
 Democrats are determined to strengthen data privacy. The President issued an Executive Order to protect America's sensitive personal data from commercial data brokers, identity thieves, and foreign intelligence actors. And, the Federal Trade Commission is cracking down on commercial surveillance and taking on technology companies for illegally retaining children's data. We must do more and update and pass the Consumer Privacy Bill of Rights, protect student data privacy by ensuring what is collected in schools is only used for education, and update the Electronic Communications Privacy Act to protect personal electronic information and safeguard location information.  
 Seizing the Promise and Managing the Risks of AI  
 Artificial intelligence (AI) holds extraordinary potential for both promise and peril. While AI is helping to cure diseases, predict the weather, and transform education, it's also being used to clone voices, commit fraud, institutionalize bias, and undermine democracy.  
 We need to act now and act fast to realize the promise of AI and manage its risks to ensure that AI serves the public interest. Democrats are finding solutions to make sure that as AI's capabilities grow, we can manage the implications for Americans' rights, safety and security.  
 President Biden issued a landmark Executive Order directing federal agencies to establish new high standards for AI safety and security, protect Americans' privacy, advance equity and civil rights, stand up for workers and consumers, promote competitive markets for AI development and use, and more. Democrats are committed to ensuring that workers get a voice in how AI is used in their workplace and that they share fairly in any economic gains AI produces.  
 We know that AI can deepen discrimination, bias, and other abuses in justice, health care, education, and housing. That's why the Administration has already taken action by publishing the Blueprint for an AI Bill of Rights and issuing new guidance from federal agencies on combating algorithmic discrimination across the economy.  
 As AI becomes more prevalent, it's critical we have the brightest minds working to understand new technologies. The Administration launched an AI Talent Surge to accelerate hiring AI professionals across the federal government, launched a pilot program to enhance successful initiatives for training additional scientists in AI, and created the AI Safety Institute at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) to set rigorous standards for extensive testing of powerful AI models to ensure safety before public release.  
 During President Biden's second term, Democrats will continue to advocate for the safe and secure development of AI. We will invest in the AI Safety Institute to create guidelines, tools, benchmarks, and best practices for evaluating dangerous capabilities and mitigating AI risk. We will also prioritize funding for critical AI research and development that advances AI safety.  
 We will also ban voice impersonations, and President Biden will take action to provide heightened protections in critical sectors such as health care, financial services, education, housing, and transportation. Finally, we will make sure that we responsibly develop, test, procure, integrate transformative AI across the federal government.  
 ENDING CANCER AS WE KNOW IT  
 Cancer has touched nearly every single American family. As we honor the enormous courage and strength of the millions of Americans facing the disease, we're working to end cancer as we know it and get patients and families the quality care and support that they deserve. The president and first lady re-launched the Cancer Moonshot in 2022 to reduce the nation's cancer death rate by at least half and improve the experience of people who are touched by cancer.  
 The Cancer Moonshot has already announced more than 95 new programs, policies, and resources, including commitments from seven leading insurance companies to reimburse for navigation services, new actions from 40 comprehensive cancer centers and community oncology practices to bring effective navigation support to underserved communities, and established insurance codes so practices, including Medicare providers, have a way to bill for patient navigation services.  
 The Administration launched the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health (ARPA-H), which is supercharging high-impact research and development to improve American health outcomes and deliver breakthroughs on cancer. President Biden is calling on the private sector to develop and test new treatments, make drugs more affordable, and share more data and knowledge that can inform the public and benefit every company's research.  
 We're supporting these initiatives by providing funds to essential programs for cancer research and health care like the National Cancer Institute (NCI), FDA, Center of Disease Control (CDC), Veterans Affairs (VA), Indian Health Service (IHS), and ARPA-H.  
 With a second term in office, President Biden will continue to work to prevent cancer, detect it early, deliver innovation, care for families facing cancer, and, ultimately, end cancer as we know it.  
 MEETING OUR NATION'S SACRED OBLIGATION TO VETERANS AND MILITARY FAMILIES  
 President Biden believes that our nation has no more sacred obligation than providing for our military service members when they're sent into harm's way and caring for them and their families after they come home.  
 President Biden signed into law more than 30 bipartisan bills addressing critical issues facing veterans, service members, and families today. He signed the PACT Act – the most significant expansion of health care benefits and services for veterans in more than 30 years – which expands VA eligibility and services to veterans who were exposed to toxic substances. Thanks to the PACT Act, more than 888,000 veterans and survivors are now receiving new service-connected disability benefits, making care and benefits available to veterans battling over 300 medical conditions.  
 Democrats are also taking steps to support veterans' mental health and decrease the scourge of veteran suicides by expanding mental health screenings, increasing access to legal and financial support, and hiring more mental health professionals at the VA. President Biden took historic action to end sexual assault and domestic violence in the military by calling for the establishment of the Independent Review Commission on Sexual Assault and then implementing the Commission's recommendations to better protect survivors. The Administration will prioritize the effective implementation of the Military Justice Improvement and Increasing Prevention Act, including by successfully operating the Offices of Special Trial Counsel within the military services branches, and the Office of the Chief Prosecutor of the U.S. Coast Guard.  
 We're also taking steps to boost access to affordable and stable housing for all veterans, who often face a high risk of homelessness, with a focus on women veterans. Last year alone, the VA helped more than 145,000 veterans and their families stay in their homes and permanently housed more than 46,000 veterans. The Administration awarded more than $1 billion in grant funding to help homeless veterans and house their families and launched a first-of-its-kind funding for legal services for veterans experiencing or at risk of homelessness to support accessing government benefits, navigating family law, ensuring access to safe housing, and assisting with debt.  
 The Veteran Scam and Fraud Evasion (VSAFE) Task Force has cracked down on scams targeting veterans, and the new National Veterans Financial Resource Center has promoted financial stability, literacy, and debt management for veterans. The VA is making it easier and faster for veterans to get their VA medical debt forgiven.  
 Our commitment to our veterans and military members extends to those who care for and support them. That's why President Biden signed an Executive Order to help military spouses obtain and maintain careers in the federal government. The Department of Defense and the Department of State also took action to ensure military spouses can keep their federal jobs when their loved ones are stationed overseas. President Biden has made child care more affordable and accessible for military families, and signed an executive order providing financial support for military-connected caregivers.  
 Going forward, we will continue to implement the PACT Act; and we will strengthen VA care by fully funding inpatient and outpatient care and long-term care, and by upgrading medical facility infrastructure. We will also improve and increase access to mental health care, expand suicide prevention, and invest in opioid overdose prevention and treatment.  
 Democrats are also determined to expand women veterans' health care and access to benefits, and to continue implementing key Independent Review Commission on Sexual Assault recommendations. With a second term in office and a majority in Congress, we will fulfill our promise to end veteran homelessness and support military students with disabilities.  
 Democrats will strengthen their support for military families by making child care more affordable and accessible, expanding job opportunities for spouses, and investing in a stipend for caregivers. We will also continue implementing the military spouse Executive Order and ensure the federal government is an employer of choice for military families.  
 In recognition of our nation's greatest heroes, we will expand memorial benefits to honor their years of service and lasting memories.  
 Chapter Nine: Strengthening American Leadership Worldwide  
 We live in a period of significant global change. The world is at an inflection point between those who argue that autocracy – rule by dictators or single leaders – is the answer to facing today's challenges and those who understand that democracy – rule by the people – is essential to moving our world forward and uplifting people everywhere. President Biden believes at this decisive moment we must demonstrate that democracy can still deliver for our people. We must rally the world to address the challenges that impact all of us, from climate change and global health to human rights, technology, food security, and inclusive economic growth.  
 The challenges of the current moment require us to revisit old assumptions and invest in new sources of American power. We have seen aggression from authoritarian powers, the destabilizing impact of a global pandemic, the growing existential danger of the climate crisis, the awesome power of emerging technologies, and the shared vulnerabilities that underlie the 21st century global economy. Most importantly, these challenges underscore how lives and livelihoods across the world are increasingly interdependent.  
 For too long, American foreign policy was conducted as if our domestic challenges were disconnected from global ones. President Biden understands that the two go hand-in-hand, and that leading abroad means being strong and resilient at home. He also knows that the United States is strongest when our partners are strong too. That's why he has met the challenges of his first term – including the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the existential threat of climate change, and intense strategic competition with China – by leading coalitions of nations who share our values to stand together.  
 EUROPE  
 During President Biden's first term, no region of the world has better illustrated the importance of our alliances than Europe. When Vladimir Putin launched his reckless war of aggression against Ukraine, he sought to shake the very foundations of the free world. He thought he could roll into Ukraine and that Ukraine and the world would roll over. He was wrong. Instead, he met the determination of the Ukrainian people. He also enhanced the resolve of NATO, the greatest military alliance in the history of the world, led by the United States. Under President Biden's leadership, the United States has been steadfast in standing alongside our European allies to defend principles of sovereignty, deter further Russian aggression, protect our shared values, and make critical investments to ensure the security of the United States and our transatlantic allies in the years to come.  
 President Biden has pursued three core objectives in Ukraine: help Ukraine defend its sovereignty, maintain unity in our transatlantic alliances, and prevent escalation into direct conflict with Russia. On all three fronts, the United States has succeeded. Under President Biden's leadership, America has provided Ukraine with the weapons as well as the diplomatic and economic support needed to defend its sovereignty from Russian aggression. That work has created good paying American jobs as we build the arsenal to defend ourselves at home and help protect democracy abroad. Alongside our allies, the United States has rallied a coalition of approximately 50 nations to provide much needed security assistance to Ukraine and coordinated unprecedented international actions to impose tough sanctions on Russia and hold Putin accountable on the world stage. The Biden-Harris Administration has also helped protect Ukraine's civilian population and energy infrastructure from unprovoked Russian attacks and worked to resume trade of Ukrainian agricultural products to support global food security.  
 Under President Biden's leadership, NATO is stronger and more united than ever and has bolstered its ranks by adding two highly capable allies: Sweden and Finland. NATO nations are meeting their financial commitments as well, with 23 NATO countries on track to meet a spending target of 2 percent of GDP on defense in 2024 – up from 9 countries in 2020. President Biden has also made clear that he considers the 2 percent goal to be a floor not a ceiling, and he continues to press the alliance to do even more to bolster collective defenses.  
 More broadly, the Administration has deepened cooperation with Europe to confront a range of shared challenges. President Biden has worked with our European allies to manage competition with China, resolve disputes between America and the European Union, and address long-standing conflicts in the Balkans and Caucasus and persistent trade issues across the continent. The US-EU Trade and Technology Council has established rules of the road on global economic and technology issues. The United States and United Kingdom AI Safety Institutes have agreed on a common approach to developing artificial intelligence safely. And President Biden has led the development of the US-EU Energy Council to counter the effects of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.  
 President Biden has also been willing to lead where other Presidents have not, becoming the first President to recognize the Armenian genocide.  
 The threat posed by Russia transcends its war of aggression in Ukraine. Russia is enlisting North Korea, Iran and China in its efforts to attack freedom across the world through military equipment sales and economic partnerships. By strengthening our alliances in Europe and Indo-Pacific, and strengthening the connections among our allies, including by inviting our Indo-Pacific allies to participate in the NATO Summits in Madrid, Vilnius, and Washington, DC, the United States is countering Russia's disruptive actions no matter where they occur.  
 President Biden will never turn his back on our allies. In his second term, he will continue to stand with Ukraine to stop Putin's atrocities and constrain Russia's threat to allied nations and America's vital interests. In addition to continuing to strengthen NATO, he will help Ukraine recover economically and support ongoing efforts to strengthen Ukraine's democracy and deepen its political and economic relationship with European and transatlantic institutions. President Biden will continue to work closely with the EU on emerging political and economic challenges and work with our European and Indo-Pacific allies to disrupt Russia's emerging military and economic alliances with Iran and North Korea.  
 INDO-PACIFIC  
 The United States is an Indo-Pacific power. The region, stretching from our Pacific coastline to the Indian Ocean, is home to more than half of the world's people, nearly two-thirds of the world's economy, and seven of the world's largest militaries. In the years ahead, as the region drives as much as two-thirds of global economic growth, its influence will only grow – as will its importance to the United States.  
 President Biden understands that standing up for the rules of the road in the Indo-Pacific, and standing by our allies, makes us safer. That is why he has maintained a commitment to freedom of navigation across the Indo-Pacific, standing with the Philippines and other allies and partners to push back against hostile actions and coercion by China. He also worked to expand our military presence in Japan and secure access to strategic sites in the Philippines through a new defense cooperation agreement – steps that will help deter future regional aggression.  
 Across the Indo-Pacific, President Biden has prioritized strengthening key multilateral partnerships. He elevated the Quad – which brings together the democratic strength of the United States, Australia, India, and Japan – to unleash new forms of regional cooperation on technology, climate, health, and maritime security. He founded AUKUS – a partnership among the United States, United Kingdom, and Australia – to better integrate the defense industrial bases of two of our closest allies and to produce conventionally armed, nuclear-powered submarines and increase cooperation on advanced capabilities such as artificial intelligence, autonomous platforms, and electronic warfare. Under President Biden's leadership, the United States hosted a historic trilateral Camp David Summit with Japan and South Korea, enshrined the Washington Declaration with South Korea, and extended trilateral deterrence discussions with Japan. The Administration has elevated our relationships with Vietnam, Indonesia, and ASEAN to Comprehensive Strategic Partnerships. It has intensified our engagement with vital regional fora in the Indo-Pacific, including hosting the leaders of the Pacific Islands Forum and ASEAN nations for face-to-face summits in Washington, DC, and hosting the 2023 APEC Summit in San Francisco. President Biden is also investing in a twenty-first-century partnership between the United States and India that builds technology into the fabric of our cooperation through programs such as the U.S.-India Initiative on Critical and Emerging Technology.  
 President Biden has also worked alongside our allies to counter the threat posed by North Korea's destabilizing development of nuclear and missile programs, in violation of multiple UN Security Council resolutions. By bolstering our trilateral cooperation with South Korea and Japan, we are maintaining peace and stability in the Korean Peninsula and beyond.  
 In his second term, President Biden will continue to promote a free, open, connected, prosperous, secure, and resilient Indo-Pacific. He will deepen economic engagement to drive inclusive growth. He will champion human rights. And he will continue to strengthen our traditional alliances and broaden regional partnerships to bolster deterrence and resist coercion.  
 CHINA  
 President Biden recognizes that the People's Republic of China (PRC) is America's most consequential strategic competitor. The PRC is the only global actor that combines the intention to fundamentally reshape the U.S.-led international order with an increasing military, economic, diplomatic, and technological capacity to do so. President Biden understands the imperative of rising to this challenge while managing the competition between our countries responsibly.  
 President Biden has invested in our strengths at home and our alliances abroad to compete vigorously with China, but we do not seek conflict. He has maintained a steadfast commitment to being tough but smart towards the PRC, relentlessly advancing U.S. interests and values while ensuring a floor of stability in the relationship with China. We will make no apology in pushing back on unfair trade practices that harm American workers. And we will guard against China taking advantage of America's openness to use U.S. technologies against America, our allies, and our interests. Against this backdrop, we seek to "de-risk" and diversify the economic relationship between our countries, not decouple. We will protect a targeted number of sensitive technologies with focused restrictions, creating a "small yard and a high fence" that preserves our national security.  
 President Biden has taken decisive action to counter unfair economic practices by the PRC and level the playing field for American workers, strategically increasing tariffs on a variety of products such as steel and aluminum, semiconductors, electric vehicles, batteries, critical minerals, solar cells, ship-to-shore cranes, and medical products.  
 President Biden also knows that for America to succeed in future competition with China, we must continue to invest in our workers and industrial base now. That is why he issued an executive order on outbound investment, preserving and protecting American and allied national security interests by denying China access to most advanced technologies that allow them to develop their military and surveillance capacities. He also tightened restrictions on the export of artificial intelligence chips and manufacturing equipment, as well as semiconductor, artificial intelligence, and quantum computing technologies to China, stifling their military use of these technologies.  
 And in areas where it is in the interests of the United States and the world for our two nations to work together – like addressing climate change and countering fentanyl trafficking – the United States will do so. President Biden pushed China to take action to curb the flow of fentanyl into the Americas, as well as to commit to climate change mitigation efforts as part of a global coalition.  
 In his second term, President Biden will remain focused on actions at home and abroad to outcompete China. He will continue to stand up to unfair economic practices, restrict the PRC's access to advanced technologies that could be used to harm American interests, and reshore supply chains for materials and technologies critical for the 21st century.  
 The Administration will continue to invest in our alliances and partnerships to ensure China cannot coerce its neighbors or overturn the international rules that keep America secure and prosperous. President Biden will also remain steadfast in America's commitment to peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait consistent with the U.S. One China policy – guided by the Taiwan Relations Act, the three Joint Communiques, and the Six Assurances – in order to continue to ensure that there are no unilateral changes to the status quo from either side.  
 Even as we compete with China, the Administration will continue to responsibly manage the relationship with the PRC to avoid a costly spiral to conflict and seek to identify new areas where the United States and China may be able to work together, such as setting guardrails on the safe usage of artificial intelligence.  
 THE MIDDLE EAST & NORTH AFRICA  
 President Biden is working to build a durable peace in the Middle East bolstered by regional integration, a strong coalition to counter and deter Iran and prevent it and its terrorist proxies from threatening the security of the region, and a negotiated two-state solution that ensures Israel's future as a Jewish and democratic state with recognized borders and upholds the right of Palestinians to live in freedom and security in a viable state of their own. The terrorist group Hamas sought to destroy the promise of that vision on October 7, 2023, but they will not succeed. The United States strongly supports Israel in the fight against Hamas. And the hard work of diplomacy under the President's leadership has made real progress on a way forward that will free the hostages, establish a durable ceasefire, ease humanitarian suffering in Gaza, and make possible normalization between Israel and key Arab states, together with meaningful progress and a political horizon for the Palestinian people.  
 President Biden has spent decades working to advance U.S. interests and values in the Middle East. As President, he has met with and worked alongside every key leader in the region to de-escalate conflicts, deter aggression and forge new ways to promote stability, prosperity, human security, and peace. President Biden has long believed that partners and allies should be able to deter conflict and defend themselves in ways that safeguard human rights and prevent civilian harm.  
 The Administration has worked tirelessly to deepen and widen regional integration. In September 2023, President Biden announced a new economic corridor to connect India to Europe through the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Jordan and Israel. He also directed his Administration to build on the Abraham Accords and work on a historic normalization deal between Israel and Saudi Arabia, As a tangible sign of this normalization process, President Biden helped negotiate the first-ever civilian aviation agreement between Israel and Saudi Arabia, allowing for overflight of Israeli civilian aircraft in Saudi airspace and leading to a more integrated and economically connected Middle East.  
 Through aggressive diplomacy backed by U.S. military power, the Administration has worked alongside our allies and partners to deter and defend against Iran and its terrorist surrogates. President Biden has postured U.S. military forces in the region and authorized precision airstrikes on key Iranian-linked targets tied to attacks against U.S. troops to deter further aggression by Iran. President Biden has also continued to protect the American people from terrorism, authorizing military strikes that took out ISIS emirs and the leader of Al Qaeda, Ayman al-Zawahiri.  
 In response to brazen attacks by Iranian-linked Houthi forces against international commercial shipping, U.S. naval vessels in the Red Sea, and Israel, President Biden ordered military strikes, alongside key allies, against Houthi targets and organized Operation Prosperity Guardian , a coalition of more than 20 nations committed to defending international shipping and deterring Houthi attacks.  
 When Iran launched more than 300 missiles and drones against Israel in April 2024, President Biden led an unprecedented defensive coalition – together with partners from Europe and across the Middle East – to defeat the attack, protect Israel, and stop the spread of a wider war. Through direct defensive action by the U.S. military and its partners, Iranian munitions did not cause significant damage, demonstrating both America's ironclad commitment to the security of Israel and our unrivaled ability to leverage growing regional integration among U.S. partners to counter Iranian aggression.  
 Response to the October 7 Hamas attack on Israel and Next Steps to a Lasting Peace for Israelis and Palestinians  
 President Biden and Vice President Harris believe a strong, secure, and democratic Israel is vital to the interests of the United States. Their commitment to Israel's security, its qualitative military edge, its right to defend itself, and the 2016 Memorandum of Understanding is ironclad. President Biden and Vice President Harris recognize the worth of every innocent life, whether Israeli or Palestinian.  
 President Biden and Vice President Harris have unequivocally denounced Hamas's brutal attack on Israel on October 7, condemned the gruesome violence – including conflict-related sexual violence – demonstrated by Hamas and made clear that the United States wants to see Hamas defeated.  
 President Biden traveled to Israel – the first U.S. president to do so at a time of war – in the days after October 7 to demonstrate that the United States stands with Israel in its quest for peace and security. He has also defended Israel at the U.N. against one-sided efforts to condemn Israel. The Administration worked with Congressional leaders to pass a historic aid package worth $14 billion to help Israel defend itself and to provide more than $1 billion for additional humanitarian aid to Gaza.  
 President Biden has also been determined to broker an immediate and lasting ceasefire deal that once finalized secures the return of all hostages, including the remaining Americans held in Gaza; addresses the immense civilian pain and extreme suffering being caused by the conflict, including the displacement and death of so many innocent people in Gaza; results in a durable end to the war in Gaza; and sets the stage for a lasting regional peace. The President has made clear to the world the importance of this ceasefire and he and his team are working at the highest levels to finalize this deal.  
 President Biden has also worked tirelessly – including through the appointment of a senior civilian coordinator for humanitarian relief – to surge and ensure the unimpeded delivery of humanitarian assistance to the Palestinian people. Many vulnerable civilians are suffering deadly consequences of the Israel-Hamas war. Residents of Gaza have been displaced, and food insecurity has been severe. The Administration has worked relentlessly to deliver food, medicine, and other aid to the people of Gaza and to set the conditions for the reconstruction of communities in Gaza that have been devastated by the war.  
 President Biden and Vice President Harris oppose any unilateral steps by either side, including annexation, that undermine prospects for two states. We will continue to stand against incitement and terror. The Administration opposes settlement expansion. President Biden has spoken out against extremist settler violence, and in February, the President issued an executive order establishing U.S. authority to impose financial sanctions against foreign persons engaged in actions that threaten the peace, security, or stability of the West Bank. The Administration believes that while Jerusalem is a matter for final status negotiations, it should remain the capital of Israel, an undivided city accessible to people of all faiths. We support critical assistance to the Palestinian people in the West Bank and Gaza, consistent with U.S. law. The Administration opposes any effort to unfairly single out and delegitimize Israel, including at the United Nations or through the Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions Movement, while protecting the Constitutional right of our citizens to free speech.  
 The Lebanese people deserve to live in an independent and sovereign Lebanon that is free from the grip of Iran-backed Hezbollah, and a corruption-free, competent, reform-minded government focused on addressing the needs of its people. In this regard, the Administration is also committed to facilitating a diplomatic resolution to the ongoing hostilities along the Israel-Lebanon border that would ensure the return of both Israeli and Lebanese families to their homes.  
 WESTERN HEMISPHERE  
 No region impacts the United States more directly than the Western Hemisphere. With $1.9 trillion in annual trade, shared values and democratic traditions and family bonds, our partners in Latin America and the Caribbean are key contributors to U.S. prosperity and resiliency. The President is building coalitions across the region that make America safer and more prosperous. He knows that we must work in lockstep with our neighbors to ensure democracies deliver on the issues that matter most to all of us.  
 In the last four years, President Biden has strengthened ties with key allies across the Hemisphere. He designated Colombia as a major non-NATO ally, a recognition of the close and unique relationship between the countries that will strengthen our military and economic ties. Understanding that irregular migration affects every country in the hemisphere, President Biden led the development of the Los Angeles Declaration on Migration and Protection, a landmark agreement that strengthens cooperation on migration among 22 countries and promotes responsibility-sharing and a more orderly and humane management of migration across the region. He and the Vice President have created over 250,000 new jobs in Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala under the Administration's ambitious Root Causes strategy for Central America. President Biden also hosted the inaugural Americas Partnership for Economic Prosperity Leaders' Summit to establish an enduring forum to mobilize economic investment for the region. And he has strengthened bonds with our closest neighbors, Canada and Mexico, on issues ranging from border security to trade.  
 President Biden is committed to countering corruption, authoritarianism, democratic backsliding, and violence in the region. He has continued to lay the groundwork for progress on U.S.-Cuba relations in a manner that benefits Americans, resuming flights between the two nations, reuniting separated families, and restoring diplomatic engagement on discrete issues like migration. And his Administration has also played a critical role in supporting Haiti's stabilization efforts, becoming the largest financial sponsor to the Kenyan Multinational Security Support mission that is countering gang violence in the country and providing humanitarian aid.  
 President Biden is also supporting human rights and fundamental freedoms as people across the region pursue a more just and prosperous future. Under President Biden, the United States negotiated the release of ten American hostages from Venezuela, reinstated sanctions on Venezuela's oil and gas sector in response to President Nicolás Maduro failing to commit to free and fair elections, and cracked down on Nicaragua for repression of their population and abuse of migrants.  
 AFRICA  
 By the end of the century, an estimated 40 percent of the world's population will live in Africa. President Biden has strengthened partnerships in the region and recognizes African nations' critical role in global stability and economic development. In a historic move, the Administration successfully advocated for the African Union to become a permanent member of the G20, ensuring Africa's voice in global economic discussions. And President Biden's hosting of Kenyan President Ruto for a state visit, the first by an African Head of State since 2008, underscored the importance of the U.S.-Kenya partnership, reflecting a broader strategy of strengthening bilateral ties across the continent grounded in mutual respect.  
 The Administration's work with the continent is focused on advancing democratic governance, fostering sustainable economic growth, improving health outcomes, and addressing the urgent challenges of climate change. The U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit in 2022 underscored how the United States and African nations are expanding partnerships to meet shared challenges. The President is committed to continuing work that will support American and African institutions and citizens as they respond to emerging opportunities and challenges in an increasingly urban and connected world. His pledge to invest $55 billion over three years across Africa is a reflection of that commitment. Through initiatives like the African Growth and Opportunity Act and Prosper Africa, the Administration is deepening economic ties between African countries and the United States, advancing regional integration, and helping realize Africa's immense economic potential for our mutual benefit.  
 President Biden is committed to addressing development challenges and urgent humanitarian needs across the continent. The Administration has invested and committed to provide nearly $20 billion in health programs across Africa. It has delivered over $13 billion in emergency aid and food security assistance for resilient African food systems and supply markets. President Biden has also launched a new strategic partnership on food security between the United States and the African Union that will leverage the public and private sectors, along with multilateral development banks and international financial institutions to accelerate transformational investments in sustainable and resilient food systems to prevent food shocks before they happen.  
 Strengthening the capacity of African nations to address security threats, including terrorism and violent extremism, remains a top priority. The Administration is expanding support for African-led peacekeeping operations and conflict resolution initiatives, ensuring that interventions align with the aspirations of local communities. President Biden also places significant emphasis on human rights and the rule of law, leveraging diplomatic channels and development assistance to promote these values. He will continue to push for a return to democracy in cooperation with the African Union in areas experiencing violence and instability, including Sudan, where he named a Special Envoy to work towards ending the conflict. .  
 In his second term, President Biden will continue to build 21st century U.S.-African partnerships. He will also work to ensure that Africa has a seat at the table in major global decisions by lobbying for United States Security Council reform that will secure permanent representation for Africa.  
 STRENGTHENING THE U.S. AND GLOBAL ECONOMY  
 President Biden's international economic policies promote growth, resilient supply chains, and clean energy adoption, while empowering American workers and workers everywhere. For too long, America's trade policies and approach to the global economy let middle-class jobs move offshore, hollowed out our supply chains, rewarded corporate CEOs instead of valuing workers, and failed to generate inclusive economic growth. In response to the previous status quo, President Biden is committed to building a fairer, more durable global economic order, for the benefit of the American people and for people everywhere.  
 Under President Biden, the United States is championing a modern industrial and innovation strategy, both domestically and with international partners. That strategy is focused on bolstering our economic and technological strengths, promoting diverse and resilient global supply chains, and setting high standards for labor, environmental practices, trusted technology, and good governance. It also aims to channel capital towards delivering public goods such as climate solutions and healthcare advancements.  
 America's prosperity and the prosperity of our allies and partners are mutually reinforcing. Under President Biden's leadership, companies from American allies are building cutting-edge factories in the United States, employing hundreds of thousands of Americans. U.S. partners provide critical materials, expertise, and products the world needs to achieve global climate goals, and are important markets for U.S. goods. Trade with allies and partners on fair terms promotes growth and reinforces alliances.  
 With the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework (IPEF), the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment, the Americas Partnership for Economic Prosperity, and bilateral initiatives such as the U.S.-Kenya Strategic Trade and Investment Partnership, the United States will mobilize tens of billions of dollars to invest in clean energy development and critical infrastructure with high labor standards around the world. These investments will result in high-quality growth, increased supply chain resilience, and progress toward global climate goals.  
 American strength at home and leadership in the world depends on America remaining at the forefront of technological innovation. President Biden will work with governments, experts, and members of the private sector to ensure that artificial intelligence and other innovative technologies lead to progress without creating new national security risks and societal divisions. Building on joint technology initiatives with the European Union, India, Singapore, South Korea, and other partners, President Biden will promote innovation and shared rules for global technologies.  
 In his second term, President Biden will continue to invest in America and our allies and partners to grow the middle class globally. He will pursue modern industrial policies, make strategic public investments to fill in where markets cannot, work to secure our supply chains on critical technologies, and fight for a global minimum tax that ensures corporations pay their fair share. President Biden will also continue to work with our allies and partners to protect labor and climate standards while helping America compete and win on the world stage. He will leverage economic tools and diplomatic partnerships and he will rally the world against economic coercion, utilizing mechanisms like the G7, World Bank, and other multilateral institutions.  
 LEADING WITH DIPLOMACY AND AMERICAN VALUES  
 President Biden has often said that the United States is strongest when we lead not only with the example of our power but with the power of our example. Military force should be a tool of last resort, not the first. Commitment to our values at home and abroad requires working alongside our allies and using every diplomatic tool available to advance American interests. It means investing in members of our Civil and Foreign Service, who lead America's engagement with the world and work in support of our shared prosperity and security in rapidly changing and increasingly complex environments.  
 President Biden ended America's longest war, bringing our troops home from Afghanistan and facilitating the resettlement of over 120,000 Afghan partners and their families in the United States, the largest resettlement effort since the Vietnam War. And in the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, the United States rallied the world to address a global food crisis and provided $2 billion in global humanitarian assistance.  
 President Biden's leadership globally was clear in his response to the COVID-19 pandemic among other global health challenges. Between May 2021 and February 2024 the United States donated more than 693 million vaccine doses to 117 countries and economies. And the Administration led the largest-ever replenishment of the Global Fund to fight HIV/AIDS, TB, and Malaria, with donors pledging $15.7 billion.  
 Understanding that there is nothing more important than addressing the climate crisis, President Biden has kept his word and ensured that the United States leads the world to combat climate change. The record-breaking heat, floods, storms, drought, and wildfires devastating communities around the world underscore the grave risks we already face and the urgency needed to reduce emissions and to help the most vulnerable countries cope with devastating climate impacts. The United States rejoined the Paris Climate Agreement on day one of his presidency, and President Biden set an ambitious goal to reach net-zero emissions by 2050, in line with climate science. And the Administration is supporting investments in climate infrastructure that make tangible progress on climate mitigation and adaptation while also helping developing countries unlock economic growth in key areas.  
 In response to the rise of authoritarianism across the globe, President Biden convened two Summits for Democracy, bringing allies and partners together to strengthen democratic resilience, combat corruption, and promote human rights globally, including for LGBTQI+ persons. The third Summit occurred this year under South Korea's leadership, and President Biden is proud to have catalyzed this new global forum to support and coordinate democracies around the world, and which will continue in his second term.  
 President Biden believes the United States must continue to be a strong advocate for the rights and opportunities of women and girls around the world. Under his leadership, the United States issued its first-ever National Strategy on Gender Equity and Equality, which recognizes that elevating the status of women and girls is not just the right thing to do – it is a strategic imperative that advances American interests in prosperity and stability. When women and girls are healthy, educated, and able to participate economically, their families and communities prosper, poverty decreases, and economies grow. And when women participate in conflict resolution and post-conflict processes, it improves the likelihood of securing sustainable peace.  
 President Biden will continue to support the United States Strategy and National Action Plan on Women, Peace, and Security and will continue to work to end the epidemic of gender-based violence around the world, including efforts to increase accountability for conflict-related sexual violence. His Administration will continue prioritizing ratification of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women. President Biden understands that advancing the rights of women and girls includes sexual and reproductive health and rights. His Administration has prioritized women's health by rescinding the global gag rule (Mexico City Policy), and supporting funding for the UN Population Fund.  
 STRONGEST MILITARY IN THE WORLD  
 The United States has the finest fighting force in the history of the world. And while our soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines, Coast Guardsmen and guardians remain the envy of the globe, President Biden understands that maintaining our military advantages in the future means making strategic investments now. That is why the Administration has invested in cutting-edge capabilities across all services and domains and maintained a commitment to modernize and recapitalize the nuclear triad as the bedrock of deterrence. That is also why President Biden has made historic investments in America's military industrial base, putting billions of dollars to work in America to increase production capacity of critical munitions and other capabilities to support U.S. and allied forces in combat zones such as Ukraine. And as the Administration does the work to plan against dramatic changes in geopolitics, technology, economics, and the environment, our military has maintained its ability to address terrorist threats, evidenced by successful strikes against leaders of al-Qa'ida and ISIS.  
 Properly investing in our military also means first and foremost investing in those who are the bedrock of it: our service members. President Biden has secured pay raises for military personnel in recognition of their invaluable service. His Administration has allocated over $10 billion to enhance health care services for veterans and active-duty personnel, including expanded mental health resources and programs to support those suffering from PTSD and other service-related conditions. President Biden's consistent efforts to address military housing issues resulted in a $1.4 billion investment in military housing improvements, leading to better living conditions and increased oversight of housing contracts. The Administration's policies have also supported military spouses, with over $200 million in funds dedicated to bolstering education and employment opportunities, underscoring the critical role that families play in the strength and resilience of the armed forces.  
 Aware of exacerbated nuclear proliferation challenges that the world is facing as Russia, the PRC and North Korea expand and diversify their nuclear arsenals, and in the context of Iran continuing to enrich uranium at dangerous levels, the Administration is showing what it means to act responsibly as a nuclear power. Nuclear war cannot be won and must never be fought. The United States is developing and fielding only what is required to deter while signaling openness to future arms control negotiations if competitors are interested. The Administration is modernizing each leg of our nuclear triad, updating our command, control, and communication systems, and investing in our nuclear enterprise – to ensure that we can sustain and enhance if necessary capabilities and posture. President Biden has reaffirmed in U.S. doctrine that U.S. nuclear weapons are reserved for deterring strategic attack by those that threaten us and our allies and partners with nuclear weapons.  
 President Biden has never and will never turn his back on our military. In his second term, he will continue to invest in upgrading to next-generation weapon systems, cutting-edge training opportunities, and deterrence capabilities such as our submarine force and the nuclear triad. He will continue to address cyber threats by bolstering the capacity of our intelligence communities and leading the development of rules of the road for technologies like artificial intelligence. And he will continue to always put our veterans and military families first by securing additional pay raises for service members, accessible and affordable childcare for our military families, good-paying job opportunities for military spouses, effective suicide and sexual assault prevention programs, and benefits for our veterans and their families.    