PREAMBLEAs Libertarians, we seek a world of liberty: a world in which all individuals are sovereign over their own lives and are not forced to sacrifice their values for the benefit of others.
We believe that respect for individual rights is the essential precondition for a free and prosperous world, that force and fraud must be banished from human relationships, and that only through freedom can peace and prosperity be realized.
Consequently, we defend each persons right to engage in any activity that is peaceful and honest, and welcome the diversity that freedom brings.
 The world we seek to build is one where individuals are free to follow their own dreams in their own ways, without interference from government or any authoritarian power.
In the following pages we set forth our basic principles and enumerate various policy stands derived from those principles.
These specific policies are not our goal, however.
 Our goal is nothing more nor less than a world set free in our lifetime, and it is to this end that we take these stands.
STATEMENT OF PRINCIPLESWe, the members of the Libertarian Party, challenge the cult of the omnipotent state and defend the rights of the individual.
We hold that all individuals have the right to exercise sole dominion over their own lives, and have the right to live in whatever manner they choose, so long as they do not forcibly interfere with the equal right of others to live in whatever manner they choose.
Governments throughout history have regularly operated on the opposite principle, that the State has the right to dispose of the lives of individuals and the fruits of their labor.
 Even within the United States, all political parties other than our own grant to government the right to regulate the lives of individuals and seize the fruits of their labor without their consent.
We, on the contrary, deny the right of any government to do these things, and hold that where governments exist, they must not violate the rights of any individual: namely, (1) the right to life  accordingly we support the prohibition of the initiation of physical force against others; (2) the right to liberty of speech and action  accordingly we oppose all attempts by government to abridge the freedom of speech and press, as well as government censorship in any form; and (3) the right to property  accordingly we oppose all government interference with private property, such as confiscation, nationalization, and eminent domain, and support the prohibition of robbery, trespass, fraud, and misrepresentation.
Since governments, when instituted, must not violate individual rights, we oppose all interference by government in the areas of voluntary and contractual relations among individuals.
 People should not be forced to sacrifice their lives and property for the benefit of others.
 They should be left free by government to deal with one another as free traders; and the resultant economic system, the only one compatible with the protection of individual rights, is the free market.
 Note: The Statement of Principles was approved at the Convention in Dallas in 1974.
0 Personal LibertyIndividuals are inherently free to make choices for themselves and must accept responsibility for the consequences of the choices they make.
 Our support of an individuals right to make choices in life does not mean that we necessarily approve or disapprove of those choices.
 No individual, group, or government may rightly initiate force against any other individual, group, or government.
 Libertarians reject the notion that groups have inherent rights.
 We support the rights of the smallest minority, the individual.
1 Self-OwnershipIndividuals own their bodies and have rights over them that other individuals, groups, and governments may not violate.
 Individuals have the freedom and responsibility to decide what they knowingly and voluntarily consume, and what risks they accept to their own health, finances, safety, or life.
2 Expression and CommunicationWe support full freedom of expression and oppose government censorship, regulation, or control of communications media and technology.
 Language that is perceived to be offensive to certain groups or individuals is not a cause for any legal action.
 Speech that is not literally a threat of aggression or violence is not in itself aggression or violence and can never be used to justify aggression or violence.
 Individuals are responsible for their own reactions to speech.
 We favor the freedom to engage in or abstain from any religious activities that do not violate the rights of others.
 We oppose government actions that either aid or attack any religion.
3 PrivacyLibertarians advocate individual privacy and government transparency.
 We are committed to ending governments practice of spying on everyone.
 We support the rights recognized by the Fourth Amendment to be secure in our persons, homes, property, and communications.
 Protection from unreasonable search and seizure should include records held by third parties, such as email, medical, and library records.
4 Personal RelationshipsSexual orientation, preference, gender, or gender identity should have no impact on the governments treatment of individuals, such as in current marriage, child custody, adoption, immigration, or military service laws.
 Government does not have the authority to define, promote, license, or restrict personal relationships, regardless of the number of participants.
 Consenting adults should be free to choose their own sexual practices and personal relationships.
 Until such time as the government stops its illegitimate practice of marriage licensing, such licenses must be granted to all consenting adults who apply.
5 Parental RightsParents, or other guardians, have the right to raise their children according to their own standards and beliefs, provided that the rights of children to be free from abuse and neglect are also protected.
6 Adult Rights and ResponsibilitiesOnce individuals are presumed to have adequate judgment to vote and serve on a jury or in the military, they should also be presumed to have sufficient judgment to decide their own purchase and use of alcohol, tobacco, firearms, cannabis, and engage in other activities currently restricted by government due to age.
7 Crime and JusticeGovernment force must be limited to the protection of the rights of individuals to life, liberty, and property, and governments must never be permitted to violate these rights.
 Laws should be limited in their application to violations of the rights of others through force or fraud, or to deliberate actions that place others involuntarily at significant risk of harm.
 Therefore, we favor the repeal of all laws creating crimes without victims, such as gambling, the use of drugs for medicinal or recreational purposes, and consensual transactions involving sexual services.
 We support restitution to the victim to the fullest degree possible at the expense of the criminal or the negligent wrongdoer.
 The constitutional rights of the criminally accused, including due process, a speedy trial, legal counsel, trial by jury, and the legal presumption of innocence until proven guilty, must be preserved.
 We assert the common-law right of juries to judge not only the facts but also the justice of the law.
 We oppose the prosecutorial practice of over-charging in criminal prosecutions so as to avoid jury trials by intimidating defendants into accepting plea bargains.
 Additionally, we support the abolition of qualified immunity so that law enforcement and prosecutors would be held legally accountable for misconduct that leads to wrongful convictions or other acts of injustice.
8 Death PenaltyWe oppose the administration of the death penalty by the state.
9 Self-DefenseThe only legitimate use of force is in defense of individual rights  life, liberty, and justly acquired property  against aggression.
 This right inheres in the individual, who may agree to be aided by any other individual or group.
 We affirm the individual right recognized by the Second Amendment to keep and bear arms, and oppose the prosecution of individuals for exercising their rights of self-defense.
 Private property owners should be free to establish their own conditions regarding the presence of personal defense weapons on their own property.
 We oppose all laws at any level of government restricting, registering, or monitoring the ownership, manufacture, or transfer of firearms, ammunition, or firearm accessories.
0 Economic LibertyLibertarians want all members of society to have abundant opportunities to achieve economic success.
 A free and competitive market allocates resources in the most efficient manner.
 Each person has the right to offer goods and services to others on the free market.
 The only proper role of government in the economic realm is to protect property rights, adjudicate disputes, and provide a legal framework in which voluntary trade is protected.
 All efforts by government to redistribute wealth, or to control or manage trade, are improper in a free society.
1 Aggression, Property, and ContractAggression is the use, trespass against, or invasion of the borders of another persons owned resource (property) without the owners consent; or the threat thereof.
 We oppose all acts of aggression as illegitimate and unjust, whether committed by private actors or the state.
Each person is the presumptive owner of his or her own body (self-ownership), which right may be forfeited only as a consequence of committing an act of aggression.
 Property rights in external, scarce resources are determined in accordance with the principles of original appropriation or homesteading (whereby a person becomes an owner of an unowned resource by first use and transformation), contract (whereby the owner consensually transfers ownership to another person), and rectification (whereby an owners property rights in certain resources are transferred to a victim of the owners tort, trespass, or aggression to compensate the victim).
As respect for property rights is fundamental to maintaining a free and prosperous society, it follows that the freedom to contract to obtain, retain, profit from, manage, or dispose of ones property must also be upheld.
 Libertarians would free property owners from government restrictions on their rights to control and enjoy their property, as long as their choices do not harm or infringe on the rights of others.
 Eminent domain, civil asset forfeiture, governmental limits on profits, governmental production mandates, and governmental controls on prices of goods and services (including wages, rents, and interest) are abridgements of such fundamental rights.
 For voluntary dealings among private entities, parties should be free to choose with whom they trade and set whatever trade terms are mutually agreeable.
2 EnvironmentCompetitive free markets and property rights stimulate the technological innovations and behavioral changes required to protect our environment and ecosystems.
 Private landowners and conservation groups have a vested interest in maintaining natural resources.
 Governments are unaccountable for damage done to our environment and have a terrible track record when it comes to environmental protection.
 Protecting the environment requires a clear definition and enforcement of individual rights and responsibilities regarding resources like land, water, air, and wildlife.
 Where damages can be proven and quantified in a court of law, restitution to the injured parties must be required.
3 Energy and ResourcesWhile energy is needed to fuel a modern society, government should not be subsidizing any particular form of energy.
 We oppose all government control of energy pricing, allocation, and production.
4 Government Finance and SpendingSince all persons are entitled to keep the fruits of their labor, we oppose all government activity that consists of the forcible collection of money or goods from individuals in violation of their individual rights and strive for the eventual repeal of all taxation.
 To further that end, we call for the repeal of the income tax, the abolishment of the Internal Revenue Service and all federal programs and services not required under the U.
 We oppose forcing employers to serve as tax collectors.
 We support any initiative to reduce or abolish any tax, and oppose any increase on any tax for any reason.
 To the extent possible, we advocate that all public services be funded or allowed to be provided in a voluntary manner.
5 Government DebtGovernment should not incur debt, which burdens future generations without their consent.
 We support the passage of a Balanced Budget Amendment to the U.
 Constitution, provided that the budget is balanced exclusively by cutting expenditures, and not by raising taxes.
6 Government EmployeesWe favor repealing any requirement that one must join or pay dues to a union as a condition of government employment.
 We advocate replacing defined-benefit pensions with defined-contribution plans, as are commonly offered in the private sector, so as not to impose debt on future generations without their consent.
7 Money and Financial MarketsWe favor free-market banking, with unrestricted competition among banks and depository institutions of all types.
 Markets are not actually free unless fraud is vigorously combated.
 Those who enjoy the possibility of profits must not impose risks of losses upon others, such as through government guarantees or bailouts.
 We support ending federal student loan guarantees and special treatment of student loan debt in bankruptcy proceedings.
 Individuals engaged in voluntary exchange should be free to use as money any mutually agreeable commodity or item.
 We support a halt to inflationary monetary policies and unconstitutional legal tender laws.
8 Marketplace FreedomLibertarians support free markets.
 We defend the right of individuals to form commercial enterprises based on voluntary association.
 We oppose all forms of government subsidies and bailouts to business, labor, or any other special interest.
 Government should not compete with private enterprise.
9 LicensingLibertarians support the right of every person to earn an honest and peaceful living through the free and voluntary exchange of goods and services.
 Accordingly, we oppose occupational and other licensing laws that infringe on this right or treat it as a state-granted privilege.
 We encourage certifications by voluntary associations of professionals.
10 Sex WorkThe Libertarian Party supports the decriminalization of prostitution.
 We assert the right of consenting adults to provide sexual services to clients for compensation, and the right of clients to purchase sexual services from consenting sex workers.
11 Labor MarketsEmployment and compensation agreements between private employers and employees are outside the scope of government, and these contracts should not be encumbered by government-mandated benefits or social engineering.
 We support the right of private employers and employees to choose whether or not to bargain with each other through a labor union.
 Bargaining should be free of government interference, such as compulsory arbitration or imposing an obligation to bargain.
12 EducationEducation is best provided by the free market, achieving greater quality, accountability, and efficiency with more diversity of choice.
 Recognizing that the education of children is a parental responsibility, we would restore authority to parents to determine the education of their children, without interference from government.
 Parents should have control of and responsibility for all funds expended for their childrens education.
13 Health CareWe favor a free market health care system.
 Medical facilities, medical providers, and medical products (including drugs) must be freely available in the marketplace without government restrictions or licenses.
 We recognize the freedom of individuals to determine the level of health insurance they want (if any), the level of health care they want, the care providers they want, the medicines and treatments they will use and all other aspects of their medical care, including end-of-life decisions.
 People should be free to purchase health insurance across state lines.
 We oppose governments either mandating, or restricting voluntary access to, medical treatments or procedures including vaccines.
14 Retirement and Income SecurityRetirement planning is the responsibility of the individual, not the government.
 Libertarians would phase out the current government-sponsored Social Security system and transition to a private voluntary system.
 The proper and most effective source of help for the poor is the voluntary efforts of private groups and individuals.
 We believe members of society will become even more charitable and civil society will be strengthened as government reduces its activity in this realm.
0 Securing LibertyIn the United States, constitutional limits on government were intended to prevent the infringement of individual rights by those in power.
 The only proper purpose of government, should it exist, is the protection of individual rights.
 The principle of non-initiation of force should guide relationships between governments.
1 National DefenseWe support the maintenance of a sufficient military to defend the United States against aggression.
 The United States should both avoid entangling alliances and abandon its attempts to act as policeman for the world.
 We oppose any form of compulsory national service.
2 Internal Security and Individual RightsIndividual rights shall not be curtailed, whether based on circumstances of war, epidemic, natural disaster or emergency, or any other pretense.
 Intelligence agencies that legitimately seek to preserve the security of the nation must be subject to oversight and transparency.
 We oppose the governments use of secret classifications to keep from the public information that it should have, especially that which shows that the government has violated the law.
 We oppose the use of torture and other cruel and unusual punishments, without exception.
3 International AffairsAmerican foreign policy should emphasize peace with all nations, entangling alliances with none.
 government policies of foreign intervention including military and economic aid; tariffs; economic sanctions; and regime change.
 We recognize the right of all people to resist tyranny and defend themselves and their rights.
 We condemn the use of force, and especially the use of terrorism, against the innocent, regardless of whether such acts are committed by governments or by political or revolutionary groups.
4 Free Trade and MigrationWe support the removal of governmental impediments to free trade.
 Political freedom and escape from tyranny demand that individuals not be unreasonably constrained by government in the crossing of political boundaries.
 Economic freedom demands the unrestricted movement of human as well as financial capital across national borders.
5 Rights and DiscriminationLibertarians embrace the concept that all people are born with certain inherent rights.
 We reject the idea that a natural right can ever impose an obligation upon others to fulfill that right.
 We uphold and defend the rights of every person, regardless of their race, ethnicity, or any other aspect of their identity.
 Government should neither deny nor abridge any individuals human right based upon sex, wealth, ethnicity, creed, age, national origin, personal habits, political preference, or sexual orientation.
 Members of private organizations retain their rights to set whatever standards of association they deem appropriate, and individuals are free to respond with ostracism, boycotts, and other free market solutions.
6 Representative GovernmentWe staunchly defend the rights to petition the government for redress of grievances and to express dissent.
 These rights are thwarted when government acts behind closed doors.
 We support election systems that are more representative of the electorate at the federal, state, and local levels, such as proportional representation, alternative voting systems, and explicit inclusion of none of the above on all ballots.
 As private voluntary groups, political parties should be free to establish their own rules for nomination procedures, primaries and conventions.
 We call for an end to any tax-financed subsidies to candidates or parties and the repeal of all laws that restrict voluntary financing of election campaigns.
 We oppose laws that effectively exclude alternative candidates and parties, deny ballot access, gerrymander districts, or deny the voters their right to consider all alternatives.
 We advocate initiative, referendum, recall, repeal, and oppose any effort to deny these options when used as popular checks on government.
7 Self-DeterminationWhenever any form of government becomes destructive of individual liberty, it is the right of the people to alter, abolish, or withdraw from it, and to agree to such new governance, or none, as to them shall seem most likely to protect their liberty.
 We recognize the right to political self-determination, including secession.
 Exercise of this right does not require permission from others.
0 OmissionsIn every matter, we advocate the consistent application of the principle of the non-initiation of coercion, physical force, or fraud.
 Our silence about any other particular government law, regulation, ordinance, directive, edict, control, regulatory agency, activity, or machination should not be construed to imply approval.
          COST OF LIVING & INFLATION   If we really want to fight for people chasing their dreams and achieving their goals in life, the first thing we have to do is make sure we quit robbing them with inflation.
  Government overspending and reckless money printing are fueling skyrocketing costs, hurting those who can least afford it.
 By slashing spending and balancing the budget, we can crush inflation and ignite a stronger, more vibrant economy that works for everyone.
 ECONOMY    When the government prints trillions of dollars out of thin air, it devalues the dollar that is in your wallet, that devalues the dollar that you take to the grocery store to fill up the grocery cart, the dollars that you use to pay your rent, the dollars that you use to run your business.
 Americans are struggling in an economy where the government and special interests dictate the rules.
 To end these cycles of economic crises, we must reduce government interference and let individuals decide how to spend their hard-earned money, sparking real innovation.
 IMMIGRATION   It should be simple for those who wish to come here to work and build a better life to appear before immigration officials at an accredited port of entry, be given medical and criminal checks to assess their safety, and receive a visa allowing them to immediately find employment.
 This is a process that should take, at most, days  not months or years.
  Our immigration system is outdated and inefficient.
 Its time to break the partisan gridlock and simplify the process so immigrants can come, work, and thrive as part of our communities.
 Immigrants built America, and theyre key to its future.
 HEALTHCARE   When I travel and speak with voters, one of their greatest concerns is the rising cost of healthcare for themselves and their families.
 Healthcare costs have skyrocketed and much of the blame comes from the overregulation of the market, and government keeping costs high as a result.
 It starts with removing caps on HSAs and removing barriers that will allow consumers to purchase health insurance across state lines.
  Healthcare costs are skyrocketing due to government overreach.
 By embracing market-driven options like Direct Primary Care and reforming drug approval processes, we can lower prices and increase access.
 More choices mean lower costs! EDUCATION   When you create one-size-fits-all, you create the cracks that students fall through.
 If Im elected president, I advocate that federally, we end the Department of Education, and decentralize our education.
  To fix education, we need to cut federal involvement.
 Abolish the Department of Education, return funds to states and taxpayers, and get the government out of student loans to drive down costs.
 WAR & FOREIGN POLICY   As the major parties become more and more war-hungry, libertarians have been sounding the alarm about the unsustainable military empire since its inception.
 As president, I WILL end wars and bring the troops home  For too long, our nation has been entangled in endless wars, leaving scars on our veterans and their families.
 Its time to pivot to a foreign policy focused on peace.
 We need to end drone strikes and military interventions, and instead champion free trade and international goodwill.
 Lets reclaim our role as the leader of the free world by pursuing peace and serving as a beacon of hope.
 INDIVIDUAL CHOICE   If youre not harming someone with force, fraud, coercion, theft or violence, if youre not doing any of those bad things, your life is your life.
 Your business is your business, and your property is your property.
  No government should regulate personal activities or impose harsh penalties.
 We must end the death penalty, corporate bailouts, drug criminalization, abortion restrictions before viability, and excessive employment regulations.
 The government shouldnt draft citizens, tax individuals excessively, mandate medical treatments, or censor private communication.
 CRIMINAL JUSTICE REFORM   If elected, I will put an end to the Justice Departments abuses and pardon all individuals imprisoned for victimless crimes, starting with Snowden, Assange, and Ulbricht.
  Our criminal justice system is broken and needs a radical overhaul.
 From courts to prisons, we must focus on empowering people, not expanding government control.
 America imprisons a quarter of the worlds inmatesan injustice in a nation that prides itself on freedom.
 We must dismantle the prison-industrial complex, end the failed War on Drugs, and eliminate qualified immunity for police.
 Abolishing the death penalty and ensuring police accountability are crucial steps towards a just and fair system.
 Lets shift from punishment to rehabilitation and make our justice system a true beacon of freedom.
 PRIVACY   Our Constitution clearly states the limitations on government invasion of privacy and its time we have a president who will roll back these excesses and keep government in check.
  The worst abuses often come under the guise of safety.
 With warrantless wiretaps, FISA court abuses, and the overreaching Patriot Act, our freedoms are under threat.
 As President, Chase will dismantle these invasive programs, restore your privacy rights, and pardon whistleblowers who reveal government misconduct.
 Your liberty is worth defending! GREEN ENERGY   Nuclear Power is greater than fossil Fuels.
 Its cleaner, safer, more efficient, and helps curb the negative effects of climate change.
 Solar and Wind and others also have their places too, but Nuclear power is what we need to power the 21st century.
  Chase will transform environmental policy by slashing red tape and embracing market-driven, science-backed solutions.
 His plan: end wars, respect tribal sovereignty, ensure energy independence, and champion smart deregulation.
 GUN RIGHTS   Gun control throughout our history has been used to limit the ability of vulnerable populations to defend themselves.
 I support the right of every person to defend themselves from violence and aggression.
  You deserve the right to protect yourself from violence.
 History shows that gun control has often been used to limit the ability of vulnerable groups like you to defend yourself.
 Im committed to ensuring you can exercise your right to self-defense, appointing judges who uphold this right, and fighting against any restrictions that undermine your safety.
 Lets keep our communities secure and support your right to protection.
 TERM LIMITS    While I support the notion of term limits in general, I recognize it would take an amendment to the U.
   Chase supports term limits for all federal officialselected or appointedto keep government fresh and accountable.
 Term limits ensure new perspectives and reduce wasteful spending, while agency leaders must face regular reviews for reappointment.
 VOTER BILL OF RIGHTS    CHASE ENDORSES THE VOTER BILL OF RIGHTS BY LARS MAPSTEAD All voters have the right to vote for the candidate of their choosing All voters have the right to fair congressional districts All voters have the right to transparent elections All voters have the right to access the voting process All voters have the right to secure elections  I.
 All voters have the right to vote for the candidate of their choosing  No candidate shall be required to provide a fee more than 1% of the salary of the office, or submit more than 1000 signatures, to appear on the ballot.
 No state shall prohibit candidates from collecting signatures to appear on the ballot 365 days before election for that office.
 There shall be no special ballot access privileges provided by membership in or association with any party, organization, or association.
 All voters have the right to fair congressional districts  No state shall limit the right of voters to establish independent citizens redistricting commissions free of elected officials and their agents.
 All redistricting guidelines, maps, plans, processes, formulas, and algorithms used to draw congressional districts shall be made available for public inspection and comment at least 60 days prior to adoption.
 Congress shall not limit the right of voters to create at-large, proportional, or combined nonpartisan congressional districts, so long as the number of representatives per state does not change.
 No state shall prohibit or otherwise hinder a ballot initiative to reorganize congressional districts or create an independent citizens redistricting commission.
 All voters have the right to transparent elections  No state shall limit the access of citizens to safely observe the voting process so long as they do not obstruct the election or voting process.
 Regardless of method or type of ballot, no state may restrict access to examination of voted ballots, ballot tapes, and executed ballot applications by the public 30 days after an election, and no state may discard any of the above for 24 months after an election.
 All states shall make the source code of any electronic voting machine used in an election available for public inspection.
 All voters have the right to access the voting process  No state shall require payment for appropriate identification to vote, or the underlying documents required for such identification.
 No state shall prohibit a nonincarcerated citizen from voting due to criminal history or record.
 No state shall restrict any registered voter from requesting an absentee ballot.
 All voters have the right to secure elections  No state shall prohibit or hinder any citizen from accessing current voter registration lists.
 Any state that uses electronic voting machines shall use end-to-end encryption on all voting software and systems, and shall have a printed record of each electronic vote.
