 Our defense budget has increased out of all proportion to any military threat to the United States, and to our domestic social, economic and environmental needs.
 The United States government must reduce our defense budget to half of its current size.
 The 2012 defense budget exceeded $700 billion, and that does not take into account military expenditures not placed under the defense budget.
 Our nation was born as the first great experiment in modern democracy.
 We seek to rescue that heritage from the erosion of citizen participation.
 Moreover, we seek to dissolve the grip of the ideology, intoned by big-money interests for more than twenty years, that government is intrinsically undesirable and destructive of liberty and that elected officials should rightly "starve the beast" by slashing all spending on social program, in the name of freedom.
 We challenge that tactic by calling on all Americans to think deeply about the meaning of government of the people, by the people, and for the people.
 In a democracy, individuals come together to form structures of governance that protect and advance the common good.
 We the citizens are the government, and we the citizens can direct it to fulfill its finest goals and purposes.
 Our citizens must not permit usurpation of their authority by acts of individuals and government agencies that isolate or insulate government from their oversight and control.
 We, the People, have a responsibility to participate in self-government through all the means that our Constitution provides.
 Citizens of a democracy must have the information and ability to determine the actions of their government.
 Vast concentrations of wealth and power that have occurred in recent years are inherently undemocratic.
 The deregulation of corporate activity and the decentralization and underfunding of the regulatory structures that remainaccompanied by the centralizing of big money has been a disaster for our country.
 The true owners of the public lands, pension funds, and the public airwaves are the American people, who today have little or no control over their pooled assets or their commonwealth.
 The power of civic action is an antidote to the corporate control of so much of our lawmaking and regulating.
 The pervasive abuse imposed by corporate power increasingly undermines our democracy, but the Green Party seeks to rekindle the democratic flame.
 As voting citizens, taxpayers, workers, consumers, and stakeholders, we unite to exercise our rights and, as Thomas Jefferson urged, to counteract the "excesses of the moneyed interests.
" Toward this end, we consider serious reform of campaign funding to be essential, as well as curbs on the influence of corporations on lawmakers and regulatory agencies.
 The Green Party considers American democracy to be an ongoing, unfolding project that is dynamic and creative in nature.
 We are committed to the strengthening of our civil society, including the many mediating institutions at the community level that have always characterized our democracy.
 We seek to heal the alienation and apathy that has been cultivated in the citizenry by the power brokers of the status quo.
 Righteous anger about the crippling of our democracy is rising in the land, and the Greens offer constructive alternatives.
 In addition, we seek to repair the plummeting opinion of the United States in the international community resulting from our arrogant, narcissistic foreign policy of recent years.
 A growing and grave imbalance between the citizens of this country and the interests that extract power from the citizens is an imminent danger to our security and national and global social stability.
 We strongly feel that our country should view itself as a member of the community of nations.
 The United States could well play a leadership role in that community but only if we become committed to an eco-social vision of peace, national self-determination, and international cooperation.
 Our goal is to become an important political force in this country, and to present candidates for election at every level of government.
 Political Reform   OUR POSITION   Greens will crack down on political corruption and strengthen the voice of the people at all levels of government.
 Everyone deserves the opportunity to influence the governmental decisions that affect them.
 But the defining characteristics of modern politics in the United States are a corrupt campaign finance system that enables corporate and wealthy elites to purchase political outcomes; and an abundance of anti-democratic electoral, ballot access and debate rules designed to minimize participation and choice.
 To achieve genuine citizen participation, citizens must share in the power of governing.
 Greens seek to bring vibrant grassroots democracy to every part of the United States.
 electoral system, from how elections are financed, to conducting them in more fair and representative ways, to ensuring accountability and transparency on all levels of government.
 winner-take-all voting system is fundamentally flawed, resulting in low voter participation, little choice or competition in countless elections, and far too few women and minorities in elected office.
 The failure to fulfill the promise of democracy leaves millions of people in our country too discouraged to vote and others who chose to vote seemingly trapped among false and limited choices.
 A system that promotes full and fair representation would draw millions of people in the United States into civic life and could revive democracy in this country.
 Enact proportional representation voting systems for legislative seats on municipal, county, state and federal levels.
 Proportional representation systems provide that voters are represented in the proportion their views are held in society; and are based on dividing seats proportionally within multi-seat districts, compared to the standard U.
 Forms of proportional representation include ranked-choice voting (RCV) (candidate-based), party list (party-based) and mixed member proportional (MMP) voting (combines proportional representation with district representation).
 Enact Ranked Choice Voting for chief executive offices such as mayor, governor, and president and other single-seat offices including U.
 Senate, while retaining the right for all ballot-qualified parties to place their partys nominee on the general election ballot in partisan elections.
 Under Ranked Choice Voting, voters can rank candidates in order of preference (1,2,3, etc.
 Ranked Choice Voting ensures that the eventual winner has majority support and eliminates vote-splitting, allowing voters to express their preferences knowing that supporting their favorite candidate will not inadvertently help their least favored candidate.
 Ranked Choice Voting frees voters from being pressured to choose between the lesser of two evils; allows them to vote their hopes, not their fears; and saves public funds by eliminating unnecessary run-off elections.
" Oppose top-x (top two/four/five) primary elections for state and federal office, regardless of whether they utilize ranked-choice voting for the general election.
 Top-x elections are anti-democracy, anti-party, and misdirect voter frustration into counter-productive reform.
 Instead of promoting proportional representation, top-x systems restrict representation to only one representative per legislative district.
 Instead of promoting voter choice, top-x systems eliminate a guaranteed place on the general election ballot for candidates from all ballot-qualified parties, and take away these parties right to nominate their own candidates.
 Top-x primaries are not suitable to handle large numbers of competitive major party candidates, with competition among candidates of the same major parties that don't actually represent significantly different policies crowding out minor parties with distinct perspectives.
 Misleadingly, proponents of top-x primaries call them open primaries.
 Open primaries are systems that retain party primaries, but allow any voter to choose to vote in a party primary of their choice.
 Instead of promoting an inclusive multi-party system, top-x systems eliminate party primaries.
 Substantially expand the number of seats in the U.
 House of Representatives together with electing the House from multi-seat districts by proportional representation  both by Federal legislation  to help make the House far more representative of the nations population and rich diversity.
 Towards this end, amend or repeal the The Permanent Apportionment Act of 1929 ( https://history.
gov/Historical-Highlights/1901-1950/The-Permanent-Apportionment-Act-of-1929/ ), which limits the size of the House; and amend or repeal and replace the 1967 law (PL 90-196 ( http://archive.
org/?page=526 ) that mandates single-member districts for the House and replace it with one that mandates multi-seat, districts elected by proportional representation.
 Enact elections by proportional representation from multi-seat districts on federal and state levels, with enough seats in each districts to eliminate the possibility of unfair representation produced by gerrymandering, because in such multi-seat districts, even small political minorities do not waste their votes and are able to elect their fair share of representatives.
 Until such proportional representation elections are enacted and even after they are, to guard against gerrymandering, establish independent and transparent non-partisan citizen-redistricting processes in every state, to determine the boundaries for whatever districts that are employed (winner-take-all or proportional).
 Enact federal legislation requiring that Congressional districts be determined by state-established independent citizen-redistricting commissions.
 Provide federal funding for these state processes, with the goal of establishing national consistency in procedures.
 Abolish the US Senate by constitutional amendment.
 Senate is abolished, enact state laws requiring that all state U.
 Senate seats are elected by ranked-choice voting.
 Constitution to require that all vacancies in the U.
 Senate be filled by ranked-choice voting special election, rather than appointment.
 Abolish the Electoral College and provide for the direct national election of the president by Ranked Choice Voting.
 As a step in that direction, support National Popular Vote legislation which would guarantee the Presidency to the presidential candidate who receives the most popular votes in all 50 states (and the District of Columbia), which would take effect only when enacted, in identical form, by states possessing a majority of the electoral votes - that is, enough electoral votes to elect a President (270 of 538).
 Create a new publicly-funded Peoples Commission on Presidential Debates, and open its presidential and vice-presidential debates to all candidates who appear on at least as many ballots as would represent a majority of the Electoral College and who raise enough funds to otherwise qualify for general election public financing.
 Any candidate who refuses to participate in such debates would lose general election public financing for their candidacy.
 Amend federal law to remove the non-profit tax exemption status that allows corporations to fund the existing Commission on Presidential Debates and other such exclusive privately controlled debate entities.
 Reinstate public funding of presidential conventions, and establish the percentage of the presidential popular vote required for a new party to receive public presidential convention funding at 1% for its candidate in the previous general election   Include the option to vote for a binding None of the Above (NOTA) on all party primary and general election ballots.
 If NOTA receives the most votes in a single-seat, winner-take-all primary election, no candidate from that contest advances to the general election.
 If NOTA receives the most votes in a single-seat, winner-take-all general election, no candidate is elected and a new election must be held.
 Support the right to initiative, referendum and recall at all levels of government.
 Enact signature gathering standards that empower volunteer collection efforts and financial disclosure requirements that identify the sources of funding behind paid signature efforts.
 Enact a national right to vote law and a constitutional amendment, so that every citizen of the United States who is of legal voting age, shall have the fundamental right to vote in any public election held in the jurisdiction in which the citizen resides.
org/right_to_vote_amendment ) Establish, through state and federal legislation, same-day registration and and universal automatic voter registration , along with fail-safe voting procedures, so that eligible voters whose names are not on the voter rolls or whose information is out-of-date can correct the rolls and vote on the same day.
 Give people more choices about where and when they vote, without undermining the ability to vote in the local community where one resides.
 Amend the Federal Voting Rights Act to enact a new Section 5 pre-clearance provision to ensure that state governments do not enact laws restricting the right to vote.
 Clarify that Section 2 provides for a board understanding of disproportionate negative impact upon protected classes.
 Ensure that proportional representation elections are considered valid remedies for Voting Rights Act cases, in both Federal andState Voting Rights Acts.
 Make it easier to meet the goals of the Federal Voting Rights Acts, by expanding the number of seats in the U.
 House of Representatives in combination with elections from multi-seat districts by proportional representation, because more seats  and more proportionally-awarded seats  means fewer conflicts among multiple traditionally under-represented groups competing for too few winner-take-all seats.
 Establish, through state legislation, the preregistration of sixteen- and seventeen-year-olds and provide educational opportunities for them to practice voting as part of the preregistration process.
 Restore full citizenship rights to felons upon completion of their sentence, including the right to run for elected office.
 Enable greater enfranchisement of overseas voters.
 Make Election Day a national holiday and/or have weekend elections.
 Ensure that citizens of the District of Columbia have the same rights and representation as all other U.
 Ballot Access     Eliminate all ballot access laws and rules that discriminate against smaller parties and independents, and otherwise place undue burden on the right of citizens to run for office  including high filing fees and petition signature thresholds, and unreasonably short qualification periods.
 Enact a right to the ballot law establishing national readily achievable baseline standards for state party and individual candidate ballot access petitions.
 Include a party qualification option by voter registration, for states that offer voter registration-by-party.
 Establish national readily achievable baseline standards for retaining ballot access by political parties.
 Include the opportunity to retain ballot status via achievable percentages of the vote in any statewide race, not just for governor or president and only require this at a minimum of every four years.
 Campaign Finance Reform      Provide full public financing of federal, state and local elections, including free candidate statements in official government voter guides, and free and equal radio and television time on the public airwaves for all ballot-qualified candidates and parties.
 Amend the Federal Election Campaign Act to change the percentage of the presidential popular vote required for a new partys candidate to receive first time General Election public funding from 5% in the previous General Election to 1%;   Amend the U.
 Constitution to unequivocally define that money is not a form of free speech; that human beings, not corporations, are persons entitled to constitutional rights; and that full regulation or limitation of campaign contributions and spending be allowed by law.
 Such an amendment would overturn Citizens United v.
 Amend the Constitution to authorize the regulation of election contributions and spending to eliminate undue influence of money in our political system, and to protect the rights of all Americans to free speech, political participation, and meaningful representation in government.
 Together these reforms would address campaign finance transparency of dark money while ending independent campaign expenditures by the corporate rich.
 Until such amendments in enacted, prohibit corporations from spending to influence elections, as a condition of receipt of a corporate charter by federal chartering of corporations.
 Pass strong campaign-finance disclosure laws in all fifty states that require full transparency for campaign donations, including from 501(c)(4) organizations and LLCs.
 Replace the Federal Election Commission with a vigorous watchdog empowered to enforce federal campaign finance laws .
 Election Integrity     Establish guarantees that every citizens vote is counted , and that all U.
 voting systemsincluding electronic onesare verifiable, transparent and accurate.
 Develop publicly-owned, open source voting equipment and deploy it across the nation to ensure high national standards, performance, transparency and accountability; use verifiable paper ballots; and institute mandatory automatic random precinct recounts to ensure a high level of accuracy in election results.
 Establish a National Elections Commission with the mandate to establish minimum national election standards and uniformity, partner with state and local election officials to ensure pre-election and post-election accountability for their election plans, require nonpartisan election boards, and depoliticize and professionalize election administration across the United States.
 Enact federal legislation to protect election workers from partisan interference,        6.
 Reducing Corruption and Good Government   Expand the Freedom of Information Act to apply to Congressional records.
 Create a Congressional Records Act to prohibit the destruction of potentially important documents.
 Establish an independent records office for each chamber of Congress, with duties similar to the National Archives and Records Administration and executive agency Freedom of Information Act offices, so that individual Congressional member offices are not deciding which documents to preserve; and   Require Congressional member offices to proactively disclose records of lobbyist and visitor contacts.
 To address potential conflicts of interest, Prohibit all individual stock trading by members of Congress and their spouses.
 Require that members divest interests in closely held businesses (including family businesses).
 Prohibit members and senior aides from owning individual interests in companies, and instead require them to hold only publicly traded index or diversified mutual funds, U.
 Ensure the public can easily identify financial interests that might present conflicts for Congress members and senior staff.
 Require that Congress members file more detailed financial disclosure reports and provide more information about their potential financial conflicts of interest to the House and Senate ethics committees.
 Require all members and senior staff disclose any financial interests they hold in any company or industry that is related to or impacted by matters before any committee on which they serve or work.
 Require that, prior to any hearing featuring any person representing any corporation, entity, industry group, or other interested party, committee members and committee staff release a statement documenting any interest, financial or otherwise, that is reasonably related to the witnesses.
 Empower the Securities and Exchange Commission to conduct insider trading and other securities investigations of Congress members and staff who are privy to material nonpublic information.
 Empower the Internal Revenue Service to conduct yearly audits of member finances, as a strong disincentive against members trying to hide financial interests, while simultaneously giving the public confidence that members are playing by the same financial rules as everyone else.
 Prohibit members of Congress, Governors, state legislators and their staffs from accepting for their own personal benefit any gifts of any amount from lobbyists or the general public.
 Require outside counsel to investigate ethics complaints against members of Congress, and toughen punishments within the congressional ethics processes for corruption, abuse of power and other wrongdoing.
 Expand revolving-door lobbying cooling off periods for members of Congress and their top staff to at least two years.
 Establish binding ethics requirements for Supreme Court judges and strengthen existing ethics requirements for other federal jurists, including to address financial conflicts of interest and other forms of influence that are damaging to the courts independence and impartiality.
 Require recusal whenever a conflict of interest creates the appearance of bias.
 Increase disclosure, reporting and transparency by all federal judges around compliance with whatever financial and ethical rules apply to them, and refer violations to the Department of Justice for enforcement and/or to Congress for impeachment hearings.
 Establish an Inspector General (IG) for oversight of all federal judges.
 Require public disclosure by all members of the Federal judiciary of their tax returns filed with the Internal Revenue Service every year.
 Require federal judges to make annual financial and ethics-related disclosures to the IG.
 Give the IG the power to investigate and monitor justices compliance with whatever financial and ethical rules apply to them.
 Require the IG to generate and issue annual reports of non-compliance with those rules, or with the IGs efforts to investigate compliance with those rules, to the public and to the House and Senate Judiciary Committees.
 Substantially increase the size of the Supreme Court so that filling any single vacancy would have less impact on the ideological balance of the Court, so that the larger size would limit the ideological bias of individual justices, and so that the larger size could better represent the diversity of experience in society and inform the Court's decision-making.
 Substantially increase the size of the Supreme Court to enable the Court to expand its capacity to hear more cases.
 Replace lifetime appointments with term lengths, so that all appointees to regular terms serve terms of equal length.
 Establish term lengths so each presidential administration would have appointments to make.
 Consider term limits and a mandatory retirement age for justices.
 Promote experimentation with citizens assemblies to enable the public to interact directly with Congress   Increase the number of polling places, and increase the pay for poll workers.
 Strengthen sunshine laws to provide citizens with all necessary information and access to their political system.
 Ensure that all important federal, state and local government documents are on the Internet, especially texts of bills, searchable databases of voting records, draft committee and conference reports, and court decisions.
 Reinvigorate the independent investigative agencies, such as the General Accounting Office and the inspectors general.
 Enact tough new federal anti-bribery and gratuity laws to stop corporations and the wealthy from purchasing government action, and vigorously enforce of anti-corruption laws by the Justice Department.
 Support the ability of cities to establish elected police commissions with the power to set hire and fire police chiefs, set policies and budgets, and independently investigate and discipline police misconduct, with a budgeted a support staff, including legal support.
 Community   Community is the basic unit of green politics because it is personal, value-oriented, and small enough for each member to have an impact.
 Community involvement is a foundation for public policy.
 Social diversity is the wellspring of community life where old and young, rich and poor, and people of all races and beliefs can interact individually and learn to care for each other, and to understand and cooperate.
 We emphasize a return to local, face-to-face relationships that humans can understand and care about.
 Among Greens, our guiding principle is to think globally and act locally.
 Community needs recognize a diversity of issues, and local control recognizes a variety of approaches to solving problems, ones that tend to be bottom-up not top-down.
 Green politics does not place its faith in paternalistic big government.
 Instead,   Greens believe face-to-face interactions are essential to productive and meaningful lives for all citizens.
 The Green vision includes building communities that nurture families, generate good jobs and housing, and provide public services; creating cities and towns that educate children, encourage recreation, and preserve natural and cultural resources; building local governments that protect people from environmental hazards and crime; and motivating citizens to participate in making decisions.
 The Green vision calls for a global community of communities that recognize our immense diversity, respect our personal worth, and share a global perspective.
 We call for an approach to politics that acknowledges our endangered planet and habitat.
 Our politics responds to global crises with a new way of seeing our shared international security.
 We will conceive a new era of international cooperation and communication that nurtures cultural diversity, recognizes the interconnectedness between communities, and promotes opportunities for cultural exchange and assistance.
 We call for increased public transportation, convenient playgrounds and parks for all sections of cities and small towns, and funding to encourage diverse neighborhoods.
Transportation in chapter III] We support a rich milieu of art, culture, and significant (yet modestly funded) programs such as the National Endowment for the Arts and National Endowment for the Humanities.
 Families and Children   We call for social policies to focus on protecting families.
 The young our citizens of tomorrow are increasingly at risk.
 Programs must ensure that children, who are among the most vulnerable members of society, receive basic nutritional, educational, and medical necessities.
 The Green Party supports and seeks to expand Head Start and Pre- and neo-natal programs.
 A Children's Agenda should be put in place to focus attention and concerted action on the future that is our children.
 Youth Rights in chapter II]   A universal, federally funded childcare program for pre-school and young schoolchildren should be developed.
 Family assistance such as the earned income tax credit, available to working poor families in which the parent supports and lives with the children, should be maintained and increased to offset regressive payroll taxes and growing inequalities in American society.
 True Cost Pricing and Tax Fairness in chapter IV]   A living family wage is vital to the social health of communities.
 Livable Income in chapter IV]   The actuarial protection of social security is essential to the well-being of our seniors, and maintenance of the system's integrity is an essential part of a healthy community.
 We oppose privatization of social security, call for the program to remain under the aegis of the Federal Government, and seek to expand its effectiveness.
 National Debt in chapter IV ]   We support the leading-edge work of non-profit public interest groups and those individuals breaking out of "careerism" to pursue non-traditional careers in public service.
 Alternative Community Service   We must create new opportunities for citizens to serve their communities through non-military community service.
 Alternative community service to the military should be encouraged.
 We advocate the formation of a Civilian Conservation Corps, with national leadership and state and local affiliates, to spearhead efforts to work on the tasks of environmental education, restoration of damaged habitats, reforestation, and cleaning up polluted waterways.
 Providing land and resource management skills will challenge young people while encouraging social responsibility.
 Free Speech and Media Reform   OUR POSITION   Independent, critical media are essential to an informed and healthy democracy.
 Citizens must have ready access to news and information to make responsible informed choices as voters and to carry out their other duties of citizenship.
 The United States' original communications policy was the 1st Amendment.
 Freedom of the press was guaranteed in the Constitution because an exchange of ideas and an unfettered debate were considered essential components of a democratic society.
 Today, however, government policy is designed less to enhance public deliberation than to boost the profitability of media corporations.
 Our media laws and rules promote the formation of huge media conglomerates while discouraging competing voices.
 As a result, the mainstream media is increasingly cozy with the economic and political elites whom they should be investigating.
 Mergers in the news industry have accelerated, further limiting the spectrum of viewpoints in the mass media.
 media overwhelmingly owned by for-profit conglomerates and supported by corporate advertisers, investigative journalism is in an alarming decline.
 In response, Greens will strengthen citizens' influence over the broadcast media, break up the dominant media conglomerates and boost the number of community and non-profit news outlets, all to fortify the media's crucial watchdog function and to help create a more diverse and lively exchange of ideas in America.
 Since governments too often have an interest in controlling the flow of information, we must constantly guard against official censorship.
 In our society however, large corporations are a far more common source of censorship than governments.
 Media outlets kill stories because they undermine corporate interests; advertisers use their financial clout to squelch negative reports; powerful businesses employ the threat of expensive lawsuits to discourage legitimate investigations.
 The most frequent form of censorship is self-censorship: journalists deciding not to pursue certain stories that they know will be unpopular with the advertisers.
 GREEN SOLUTIONS   Return ownership and control of the electromagnetic spectrum to the public.
 The privatization of the broadcast airwaves, one of our most important taxpayer assets, has caused serious deformations of our politics and culture.
 End the privatization of broadcast frequencies and reserve them for the creation of new not-for-profit community broadcasters around the country and for broadband and wifi networks owned and operated by cities, counties and towns which want to deliver this vital tool to their people at reasonable cost.
 Enact tough new anti-trust laws for the media, carve up the big media conglomerates, and follow up with vigorous anti-trust enforcement.
 End commercial broadcasters' free licensed use of the public airwaves.
 Require market-priced leasing of any commercial use of the electromagnetic spectrum.
 Revenues derived from these license fees should be used to fund the operation of community media.
 Tax electronic advertising to fund democratic media outlets.
 Reinstate and strengthen the Fairness Doctrine, to require that holders of broadcast licenses present controversial issues of public importance in an equitable and balanced manner.
 Establish substantial public interest obligations for broadcasters and hold them accountable, and revoke licenses from outlets that fail to satisfy these obligations.
 Support Public, Educational and Governmental (PEG) Access Television to ensure that citizens and community organizations have the opportunity to create and present their own programming on cable television.
 Expand the role of community radio, by expanding the licensing of new non-commercial low power FM radio stations.
 Promote greater opportunity for women and minority ownership of media outlets.
 Greens welcome the continuing and evolving potential of the Internet to build communities, educate, inform, and promote free speech and artistic expression.
 Provide broadband Internet access for all residents of this country, so that access to information is a right, not a commodity.
 We call for the Federal Communications Commission to consistently classify all Internet service providers, regardless of the type of service (cable, dial-up, satellite, etc.
 We call for the specific classification of all Internet service providers as common carriers as used in Title II of the Communications Act.
 We support all efforts to achieve net neutrality.
 Internet users should be able to access any lawful web content they choose and use any applications they choose, without restrictions or limitations imposed by their Internet service provider or government, except for restrictions that exist to prevent spam e-mail, viruses, and similar content that will harm the providers network or internet access devices.
 Ensure free and equal airtime for all ballot-qualified political candidates and parties on radio and television networks and stations.
 Provide public funding for independent nonprofit broadcasters' to ensure high-quality news and cultural programming with the widest possible range of viewpoints.
 Prohibit commercial advertising targeted to children less than 12 years old, as well as advertising in public places such as schools, parks, and government buildings.
 Oppose censorship in the arts, media, press and on the Internet.
 Reform the Federal Communications Commission so that it is responsive and accountable to the public at large, not just to lobbyists and commercial interests.
 Reduce mailing costs for non-profit and independent magazines and journals, and eliminate them for those that receive less than 20% of their revenues from advertising.
 Promote policies to expand investigative reporting on federal, state and local issues.
 Promote policies to encourage the people of the United States to watch less television, and instead to spend time with their families, friends and neighbors, and to engage in myriad other constructive, artistic or healthful pursuits.
 Create a publicly-controlled "Audience Network" empowered to take airtime from commercial television and radio stations, to broadcast a variety of non-commercial cultural, political, entertainment, scientific or other high-quality programs.
 Foreign Policy   At the start of a new century, we stand poised between the geopolitical conflict of East versus West; a future marked by the aftermath of the catastrophic events of September 11, 2001; the dangers of global terrorism; the U.
-led invasion of Afghanistan followed by the unprovoked invasion and occupation of Iraq; the escalation of conflict in the Middle East; and the continued research and development of nuclear weapons and the stockpiling of bio-chemical weapons.
 In the area of trade, third- and fourth-world economies and resources are being ravaged and our own economy and job security undermined by global corporatization, which concentrates greater power in the hands of fewer interests who are unaccountable to the vast majority of the world's people.
 As we overcome continued conflicts and violence, we realize the difficulties inherent in encouraging democracy and of advancing the cause of peace.
 We face a more complex set of challenges in how our nation defines its national security.
 Greens support sustainable development and social and economic justice across the globe.
 Reducing militarism and reliance on arms policies is the key to progress toward collective security.
 Foreign PolicyPeace and Disarmament         As one of the initiators and primary authors of the United Nations Charter, the United States is obligated to conform to the stipulations of the U.
 Constitution, which identifies all such agreements as treaties that hold the authority of U.
 government is pledged to abide by its principles and guidelines in the conduct of foreign relations and affairs.
 We recognize our government's obligation to take disputes with other nations or foreign bodies to the U.
 Security Council and General Assembly forum for negotiation and resolution.
 and international laws, treaties and conventions that the U.
 must recognize the sovereignty of nation-states and their right of self-determination.
 to intervene in a nation-state engaged in genocidal acts or in its persistent violation and denial of the human rights of an ethnic or religious group within its boundaries, and the right to protect the victims of such acts.
 is obligated to render military assistance or service under U.
 must recognize and abide by the authority of the U.
 General Assembly to act in a crisis situation by passing a resolution under the Uniting for Peace Procedure when the U.
 We seek the permanent repeal of the veto power enjoyed by the five permanent members of the U.
 We urge our government to sign the International Criminal Court agreement and respect the authority of that institution.
 Our government does not have any moral or legal right, or any justification, to preemptively attack another nation.
 The only legitimate use of military force is to repel an actual attack on our nation.
 We demand that our government adhere to international law, including the Kellogg-Briand Pact, Nuremberg Charter and United Nations Charter, which prohibit any and all preemptive wars or first strikes with any and all weaponry, nuclear and non-nuclear.
 We demand repeal  not amendment -- of the Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) passed by Congress in response to the attacks of September 11, 2001, and oppose any other measure purporting to 'authorize' preemptive or illegal military action.
 In passing the AUMF, Congress abdicated its exclusive authority under the Constitution to declare war.
 It further violated the Constitution and betrayed its responsibility to the American people by delegating to the president  one person  virtually dictatorial power to commit acts of war whenever he or she chooses.
 The 'system of checks and balances' has been replaced by Congress just signing the 'checks' to pay for war.
 military actions in Afghanistan, Djibouti, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Georgia, Iraq, Kenya, Libya, Pakistan, the Philippines, Somalia, Syria and Yemen.
 Numerous studies have shown that the 'War on Terror' has created an ever-increasing number of terrorists, destabilized the Middle East and beyond, and created massive death and destruction.
 It serves to maintain the US in a state of perpetual war.
 Our government should establish a policy to abolish nuclear weapons.
 It should set the conditions and schedule for fulfilling that goal by taking the following steps:   Declare a no-first-strike policy.
 will never threaten or use a nuclear weapon, regardless of size, on a non-nuclear nation.
 Our pledge to end testing will open the way for non-nuclear states to sign the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT), which has been held up by our refusal to sign the CTBT.
 Honor the conditions set in the NPT for nuclear nations.
 Reverse our withdrawal from the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty and honor its stipulations.
 End the research, testing and stockpiling of all nuclear weapons of any size.
 Dismantle all nuclear warheads from their missiles.
 We urge our government to sign the Toronto treaty banning the production, stockpiling, use and sale of land mines, and assist other nations in unearthing and disabling land mines buried in their lands.
 We urge our government to end all stockpiling of chemical and biological weapons and all research, use, and sale of such weapons; and sign the convention that will establish the decrease and inspection of all nations' stockpiles of such weapons, which the U.
 Our defense budget has increased out of all proportion to any military threat to the United States, and to our domestic social, economic and environmental needs.
 The United States government must reduce our defense budget to half of its current size.
 The 2012 defense budget exceeded $700 billion, and that does not take into account military expenditures not placed under the defense budget.
 We urge our government to phase out all bases not specifically functioning under a U.
 resolution to keep peace and bring home our troops stationed abroad, except for the military assigned to protect a U.
 Many of these bases are small and can be closed immediately.
 foreign military bases at a rate of closure of 1/4 to 1/5 of their numbers every year.
 Close the Western Hemisphere Institute for Security Cooperation, formerly known as the School of the Americas, in Ft.
 is the largest arms seller and dealer in the world.
 We urge our government to prohibit all arms sales to foreign nations and likewise prohibit grants to impoverished and undemocratic nations unless the money is targeted on domestic, non-military needs.
 In addition, grants to other nations may not be used to release their own funds for military purposes.
 must not be a conduit for defense contractors to market their products abroad and must shift our export market from arms to peaceful technology, industrial and agricultural products, and education.
 must prohibit all covert actions used to influence, de-stabilize or usurp the governments of other nations, and likewise prohibit the assassination of, or assistance in any form for the assassination of, foreign government officials.
 We must build on the Earth Charter that came out of the 1992 U.
 New definitions of what constitutes real security between nations must be debated and adopted by the foreign policy community.
 A Real Road to Peace in the Middle East   The Green Party of the United States recognizes that our greatest contribution to peace in the Middle East will come through our impact on U.
 Our commitments to ecological wisdom, social justice, grass-roots democracy, and non-violence compel us to oppose U.
 government support for "friendly" regimes in the region when those regimes violate human rights, international law, and existing treaties.
 We call on congressional intelligence committees to conduct comprehensive public hearings on the development and deployment of weapons of mass destruction by all states in the region.
 policy should support the removal and/or destruction of all such weapons wherever they are found there.
 Iran   The Green Party supports the "joint comprehensive plan of action" signed in July, 2015 by Iran and the P5+1 (five permanent members of the UN Security Council: China, France, Russia, United Kingdom, United States plus Germany), and the European Union, which confirms Iran's status as a zone free of nuclear weapons.
 According to the United States National Intelligence Estimate, Iran halted an alleged active nuclear weapons program in the Fall of 2003.
 Iran, which has signed the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty, has consistently called for a nuclear-free zone in the entire Middle East.
 The "joint comprehensive plan of action" provides that in return for Iran upholding its agreements to rid itself of nuclear material as verified by inspections by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), current economic sanctions by the US, European Union and UN Security Council will be lifted.
 The Green Party supports the swift elimination of these economic sanctions on Iran and looks to the normalization of relations between Iran and the United States.
 In keeping with UN resolutions call for a nuclear-free Middle East, the Green Party also calls on Israel, the only nuclear power in the Middle East with at least 200 nuclear warheads, to dismantle its nuclear weapons program and sign on to the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty.
 The Palestinian-Israeli Conflict   Our Green values oblige us to stand against oppression, against settler colonialism and against the International crime of apartheid.
 We recognize that Jewish insecurity and fear of non-Jews is understandable in light of the history of horrific oppression and extermination of Jews in Europe.
 However, we oppose as both discriminatory and ultimately self-defeating the position that Jews would be fundamentally threatened by the implementation of full rights for Palestinians.
 We also reject the Zionist concept of an exclusive Jewish homeland at the expence of the indigenous Palestinian population.
 Greens, we refuse to impose our views on the people of the region.
 government towards a new policy, one that recognizes the equality, the inherent humanity, and the equal civil and human rights of Jews, Muslims, Christians, and all who live in the region.
 We recognize that the prevailing Palestinian view is that the two-state solution is neither democratic nor viable in the face of international law, material conditions and "facts on the ground" that now exist in historic Palestine.
 We recognize that a growing number of Palestinians now supports a one-state solution which guarantees equal rights for all its citizens.
 Greens recognize and reaffirm the right of self-determination for both Palestinians and Israelis, and their right to live in a single undivided secular and democratic state where all residents have full and equal rights, and freedoms.
 We reaffirm the right and feasibility of Palestinian refugees to return to their homes in Israel.
 We acknowledge the significant challenges of equity and restitution this policy would encounter and call on the U.
 government to make resolution of these challenges a central goal of our diplomacy in the region.
 We reject the grossly unbalanced financial and military support of Israel by the U.
 while Israel occupies Palestinian lands, maintains and grows settler colonialism, expands an illegal apartheid system, and perpetuates violent military governance against non-Jews throughout the region.
 President and Congress to suspend all military and foreign aid, including loans and grants, to Israel until Israel withdraws from the Occupied Territories, dismantles the separation wall in the Occupied West Bank including East Jerusalem, ends its siege of Gaza and dismantles settler colonies and systemic apartheid toward its non-Jewish citizens.
 political support for Israel and demand that the U.
 government end its veto of Security Council resolutions pertaining to Israel.
 to secure Israel's complete withdrawal to, at least, the 1967 boundaries and comply fully with international law.
 position with respect to all United Nations, Arab League and Palestinian-led initiatives, the Office the High Commission on Human rights (OHCHR) and UN Special Rapporteur advisories that seek a just end to Israeli settler colonialism and apartheid safeguarding human rights defenders and the human rights of all Palestinians.
 We call on the foreign and military affairs committees of the U.
 House and Senate to conduct full hearings on the status of human rights and war crimes by Israel as well as right of return for Palestinian refugees.
 Despite decades of continuous diplomatic attempts by the international community, all efforts to bring about Israel's compliance with international law or respect for basic Palestinian human rights have failed.
 Despite abundant condemnation of Israel's policies by the UN, International Court of Justice, all relevant international conventions, and human rights organizations, Israeli violations, crimes of apartheid and ethnic cleansing against Palestinians continue with impunity.
 We recall that ending institutionalized racism (apartheid) in South Africa demanded an unusual, cooperative action by the entire international community in the form of a boycott, divestment, and sanctions (BDS) campaign.
 BDS can become an effective nonviolent means for achieving justice and genuine peace between Palestinians and Israelis, and for the region, through concerted international pressure similar to that which was applied to apartheid South Africa.
 Palestinian resistance to ongoing dispossession has mainly been nonviolent, including its most basic formremaining in their homes, on their land; and while Palestinian armed resistance is legitimate under international law when directed at non-civilian targets, we believe that only nonviolent resistance will maintain the humanity of Palestinian society, elicit the greatest solidarity from others, and maximize the chance for future reconciliation between Israelis and Palestinians.
 However, we also recognize that our appeal to Palestinians to continue to resist nonviolently in the face of ongoing existential threats from Israel is hypocritical unless accompanied by substantial acts of international support.
 We recall that in 2005, Palestinian Civil Society appealed to the international community to support a BDS campaign against Israel, and that in response the Green Party of the US endorsed this BDS campaign in 2005.
 Therefore, we support the implementation of boycott and divestment initiatives against Israel similar to those applied to South Africa in the apartheid era, which includes pressuring our government to impose targeted embargoes and sanctions against Israel.
 We support maintaining these nonviolent punitive measures until Israel meets its obligation to recognize the Palestinian people's inalienable right to self-determination and fully complies with the precepts of international law by: Ending its occupation and colonization of all Palestinian lands and dismantling the Wall in the West Bank Recognizing the fundamental rights of Palestinian citizens of Israel and Palestinians to full equality; and Respecting, protecting and promoting the rights of Palestinian refugees to return to their homes and properties as stipulated in UN resolution 194.
 In addition, we are committed to building solidarity among the U.
 population for the global BDS movement as well as with Palestinian, Israeli and international human rights organizations which fight against Israeli Apartheid.
 We recognize the structures and systems put in place for a just and peaceful future are for the people to decide without the scale tipping towards the colonizers who hold drastically greater power.
 Should the United Nations and International Civil Society conduct Palestinian-led peace negotiations, we recognize the usefulness of a Truth and Reconciliation Commission whose inaugurating action could be mutual acknowledgement by Israelis and Palestinians that they have the same basic inherent rights, including the right to exist and flourish in the same, safe and secure place of a homeland.
 Foreign PolicyTrade   We urge our government to do the following:     Re-formulate all international trade relations and commerce as currently upheld by the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), the World Trade Organization (WTO), the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank (WB) to protect the labor, human rights, economy, environment and domestic industry of partner and recipient nations so that the growth of local industry and agriculture has the advantage over foreign corporate domination.
 government should call for replacing the WTO, IMF, and World Bank with new institutions that are democratic, transparent, and accountable to the citizens of all nations.
 While the IMF and World Bank still exist in their current forms, re-structure the rules of performance of the IMF/WB to end the debts of recipient nations, prohibit the use of IMF/WB loans to impose structural adjustment programs that emphasize debt service and export-led development at the expense of social needs, and to install strict standards in the IMF/WB that control the use of grants or loans to prevent fraud, misuse, and subversion of funds by recipient governments.
 Re-write the rules for investment of corporate capital in projects operated under the IMF/WB to guarantee the rights of the citizens of the nations receiving the investment and their right to public ownership and control of their own resources.
 Mandate and protect labor's right to organize, create unions and negotiate with management in all countries receiving U.
 corporations that operate in other countries to adhere to the core labor standards established by the International Labor Organization (ILO) Declaration of the Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
 Legislate and enable oversight by an independent agency or a labor union to verify that foreign workers' rights are protected.
 At home, secure the rights of our states to establish stricter standards for health, safety, and for the environment than those of our national government, and to protect themselves against substandard, imported goods.
 Secure the right of states and municipalities to refuse to invest in foreign businesses that do not abide by their standards for imported goods, fair trade, and environmental protection.
 corporations from avoiding or evading payment of their taxes by banking abroad or locating their charters offshore.
 Every day over $1 trillion dollars circles the globe in currency tradewreaking havoc on low-economy nations without obligation to sustainable investment.
 We seek to restrict the unfettered flow of capital and currency trade, and levy the Tobin tax of .
 Fair Taxation in chapter IV]   We support the funding and expansion of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in their missions to educate and train people of less developed nations in initiating local business and economic development, and in providing health care and family planning.
 Under the agency of the United Nations, we demand that our government renew and initiate government funding and support for family planning, contraception, and abortion in all countries that request it.
 Congress to lift the embargo and restore normal diplomatic relations and respect for national sovereignty, and demand that the U.
 Human Rights   We propose the following amendment to the Constitution of the United States:   The rights established by this Constitution and the laws of the United States of America are exclusively the rights of living, breathing humans, citizens of this country or residing therein.
 No corporation or other type of association or organization can have the status of a "legal person" and thus cannot derive rights from such status.
 These organizations have no permanent, constitutionally protected rights, though they may have such powers or immunities as are explicitly granted to them by legislative actions at either the federal or the state level.
 These powers or immunities may be modified or removed by later action of the same legislative bodies.
 In no case can these powers or immunities override the constitutionally protected rights of human beings.
 Women's Rights   The Green Party makes a strong and urgent call for U.
 passage of CEDAW, the Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination Against Women, which was adopted in 1979 by the UN General Assembly and ratified by 173 countries.
 It is also known as the Women's Convention, the Women's Bill of Rights, and an International Bill of Rights for Women.
 The United States is one of a very few countries and the only industrialized nation that has not ratified it.
 The illegal international trafficking in humans, primarily women, has reached staggering numbers and consequences around the world.
 The Green Party supports the UN Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking In Persons, Especially Women and Children, which supplements the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime adopted by the UN General Assembly in November 2000 as an important tool to facilitate international cooperation.
 and 80 other countries signed the Protocol in December 2000 and by doing so have made a commitment to criminalize trafficking and to protect its many victims.
 We call for effective collaborative relationships between sending and receiving countries, including the U.
 We also call for studies analyzing and connecting the role of globalization in trafficking.
 Puerto Rican Independence   In 1898, Puerto Rico was invaded by the United States and has been held by the U.
 In response to international pressure, in 1952, the U.
 established the "Free Associated State" status for Puerto Rico but continued to claim that Puerto Rico belongs to, yet is not a part of, the United States.
 The root of the crisis is the colonial status of Puerto Rico as echoed in the UN Decolonization committee resolution on Puerto Rico adopted on June 22, 2015 which states the condition of political subordination prevents Puerto Rico from taking sovereign decisions to attend to its serious economic and social problems including unemployment, marginalization and poverty (Olga Sanabria Davila, Crisis and Colonialism in Puerto Rico, 10/26/15).
 Greens support the right of the people of Puerto Rico to self-determination and independence in conformity with United Nations Resolution 1514(XV) of 1960.
 Greens call for the release of all Puerto Rican political prisoners, such as Oscar Lopez Rivera, who has been held in U.
 Greens call for the appropriate environmental clean-up and sustainable development of Vieques, the island that was used as a firing range by the U.
 Greens oppose recruitment of the youth of Puerto Rico into the U.
 wars abroad, and denounce recruitment attempts at educational institutions.
 Further, Greens recognize that:   - Puerto Rico's debt is unpayable.
 - That in the last 20 years alone, foreign corporations operating in Puerto Rico have reaped over 600 billion dollars in tax free profits, 10 per cent of which would suffice to pay its current otherwise unpayable debt.
 - Austerity measures like a "Financial Control Authority," which have proven to exacerbate economic suffering and strip away democratic rights to self-determination, must be opposed.
 - The social cost of increasing the sales tax, of reducing workers' pay, education and health services, of eliminating labor rights gained and the dismantling of the retirement system among other recessionary measures, are a detriment to the quality of life of the people of Puerto Rico and to the strategic development of the country's economy.
 The present fiscal and economic crisis in Puerto Rico is largely due to the United States' colonial power and exploitation in Puerto Rico.
 Further, although Puerto Rico is a tropical island country seriously being affected by climate change, it is powerless to participate in initiatives and international negotiations to control and mitigate climate change and global warming.
 Conclusion   As as a colony of the United States, Puerto Rico's position of political subordination cuts across the problem and independence would break the stalemate and create the possibilities of a solution.
 Commitment to grassroots democracy is totally consistent with support for the decolonization of Puerto Rico as colonialism is contrary to democracy.
 For the country ruled, democracy is non-existent where one country rules over another, even if there are elections every four years to elect local authorities.
 Taking into account that in Puerto Rico the United States controls commerce, international relations, immigration, monetary issues, communications, postal matters, defense, labor relations, and others, to truly support democracy in Puerto Rico, its decolonization has to be supported as the first step for the Puerto Rican people to live in a democracy.
 Kurdistan   The Kurdish people are the largest ethnic group in the world that is without an independent state.
 As a result, Kurdish people have historically suffered persecution and injustice.
 The Kurdish people have been besieged to the point of a current humanitarian crisis in towns such as Kobani, Syria.
 The GPUS expresses solidarity for and affirms the right to self-determination, self-defense, communal autonomy, freedom from persecution, and release of political prisoners for the Kurdish population.
 Domestic Security   Greens want to stop the assault on our civil liberties that intensified after the attacks of September 11, 2001, and restore these and other freedoms to all people.
 During the last several decades, there has been an erosion of freedom in the United States.
 This has come from many sources and takes many forms, including the war on drugs and widespread imprisonment of nonviolent drug offenders; the increased use of personal identification, surveillance of employees at work, and the growing use of private security forces by corporations; restrictions on the speech of protesters and students; and random traffic stops of persons of color and the commonplace use of roadblocks.
 Since 9/11, this erosion has turned into a collapse of our freedoms, as then President Bush authorized torture, illegal wiretapping, indefinite detention without trial, and widespread government surveillance.
 Greens believe that all such systematic degradation or elimination of our constitutional protections must stop, and that corrective measures need to be taken in a timely manner by Congress to fully reinstate all such losses of guaranteed citizen protections.
 Immediately address environmental degradation in all forms.
 Environmental degradation poses extremely pressing concerns to both domestic and international security, amongst other things.
 An increasing frequency / intensity of extreme weather events as a whole are stressing global food, water, financial, security, energy, transportation, emigration/immigration, and other systems  pitting the self-interests of normally peaceful nations against each other.
 The Green Party calls for a complete, thorough, impartial, and independent investigation of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, including the role of the administration of George W, Bush, various U.
 based corporations and interests, and other nations and third parties.
 Many of its provisions, along with many of the other so-called National Security Acts, undermine and erode our Bill of Rights, and contribute to the destruction of the democratic foundation of checks and balances between the branches of government.
 Strictly enforce our First Amendment rights of speech, assembly, association and petition.
 Federal, state and local governments must safeguard our right to public, non-violent protest.
 It is intolerable that law enforcement agencies intimidate lawful protesters with brutality, surveillance, repression and retaliation.
 End torture, such as in prisons like Abu Ghraib, Guantanamo Bay and other U.
 Ensure those guilty of ordering or executing torture are held accountable for violations U.
 Restore habeas corpus, a legal action to obtain relief from illegal detention.
 End the use of indefinite detention without trial.
 Revoke the 2011 re-authorization of the Patriot Act, including "John Doe" roving wiretaps and the "library records" provision.
 End the abuse of National Security Letters, which the FBI uses to force Internet service providers, libraries, banks, and credit reporting companies to reveal sensitive information about their patrons.
 End illegal government spying, including the use of warrantless wiretaps.
 Three federal judges have ruled that President Bush's National Security Agency warrantless wiretaps violated the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, which contains criminal sanctions.
 Ensure that anyone who violated the FISA is held accountable for crimes committed.
 Enact a constitutional amendment affirming that the rights outlined in our Bill of Rights are human rights and do not apply in any way to corporations.
 constitutional guarantees for freedom of religion, separation of church and state, and that there shall be no religious test for public office.
 Eliminate federal, state, and local laws that discriminate against particular religious beliefs or non-belief.
 End faith-based initiatives and charitable choice programs, whereby public funds are used to support religious organizations that may not adhere to specified guidelines and standards, including anti-discrimination laws.
 Oppose the death penalty in the United States and worldwide.
 Support students' constitutional rights to free speech.
 Ensure that government actions towards immigrants comply with our Constitution and universal human rights principles.
 Support strict Fourth Amendment protections against illegal search and seizure.
 Recognize that the privacy protections of the 4th amendment extend to the Internet.
 Demand the elimination of bulk Internet data collection by our government.
 Fund and promote research into alternate Internet structures that would build in privacy.
 Hold criminally accountable all government officials, employees and contractors who illegally spy on Americans, and who provide false, misleading or incomplete testimony to Congress about surveillance of American communications by law enforcement and intelligence agencies.
 Demilitarization and Exploration of Space   The Green Party recognizes the need for the inspiration and education that the peaceful exploration of Space provides; the need for space-based systems to monitor environmental conditions on Earth; the many advances in space technology that benefit all people on Earth; and the inspiration provided to children by Space exploration can prompt them to pursue math, science, and other important courses of study.
 The peaceful exploration of Space has been usurped by the militarization of Space.
backed military conflicts have used space-based technology to disrupt the computer and communication systems of sovereign states.
 The funds required for continuing peaceful Space exploration have been used, instead, for the design, implementation and deployment of wasteful and dangerous Space hardware, such as the Strategic Defense Initiative.
 The Green Party calls for the end of Space militarization and opposes any form of space-based military aggression.
 We embrace peaceful Space exploration as a means for all people on this planet to work together.
 The benefits of inspired education are well worth the investment in peaceful Space exploration.
 The Green Party supports only the peaceful and sustainable exploration of Space, on a case-by-case, mission-specific basis, including the signing of the International Treaty for the Demilitarization of Space.
 The Green Party advocates a reduction of human-staffed space flight due to the high cost and risk for human life and the availability of automated technology that can perform necessary functions in space-based research.
 Do you like this page? Tweet                         Water is essential to all forms of life.
 The Green Party calls for an international declaration that water belongs to the Earth and all of its species.
 Government must lead the way in declaring water a fundamental human right and prevent efforts to privatize, export, and sell for profit a substance that is essential to all life.
 The human community is an element of the Earth community, not the other way around.
 All human endeavors are situated within the dynamics of the biosphere.
 If we wish to have sustainable institutions and enterprises, they must fit well with the processes of the Earth.
 The ideology of industrialism, in both capitalist and communist countries, insists that modern society lives on top of nature and should rightly use and despoil the rest of the natural world as we desire because any loss of the ecosystems is merely an "externality" in economic thought and because any problems can be addressed later by a technological fix.
 We are now living through the painful consequences of that arrogant, ignorant perspective.
 Many of our children suffer from accumulations of mercury and other toxins in their neurological systems, environmentally related cancer is on the rise, and our air and water are increasingly polluted.
 Meanwhile, our ecosystems are being compromised by the spreading presence of genetically engineered organisms.
 Our houses and buildings, manufacturing processes, and industrial agriculture were all designed with the assumption of an endless supply of cheap and readily available fossil fuels.
 Pollution and despoiling the land were not part of the thinking.
 The Green Party, however, is optimistic about the alternatives that now exist and that could be encouraged through tax policy and the market incentives of fuel efficiency.
 We also challenge the grip of the oil, automotive, and automobile insurance industries that have managed to block or roll back progress in public mass transit.
 The gutting of subsidies for the railroads has meant not only fewer passenger routes but also the addition of thousands of large freight trucks on our highways, decreasing public safety and increasing pollution.
 We are committed to extending the greening of waste management by encouraging the spread of such practices as reduce, return, reuse, and recycle.
 We strongly oppose the recent attempts to roll back the federal environmental protection laws that safeguard our air, water, and soil.
 The health of the life-support systems the ecosystems on our continent  is of paramount importance.
 Inherent in the efficient dynamics of those ecosystems is a vital profusion of biodiversity.
 Therefore, the Greens call for a halt to the destruction of habitats, which are being sacrificed to unqualified economic expansion.
 We humans have a moral responsibility to all of our relations, many of which are facing extinction because we carelessly and permanently halt their long evolutionary journey.
 The Green Party also supports the spread of organic agriculture and the careful tending of our nation's precious remaining topsoil.
 We support planetary efforts to slow the ever-increasing numbers of humans pressuring the ecosystems, and we especially support the reduction of consumption of the world's raw materials by the industrialized Northern Hemisphere.
 We are appalled by our country's withdrawal from serious efforts to limit greenhouse gases that are contributing mightily to global climate disruption.
 The Green Party strongly urges the United States to adopt an actively responsible position in this crisis and to take significant action to address the problem.
 Climate Change   ECOSOCIALIST GREEN NEW DEAL   The Green Party calls for an Ecosocialist Green New Deal to achieve 100% clean energy, zero greenhouse gas emissions, and economic security for all within a decade.
 The Green New Deal will continue to work toward negative emissions to bring the atmospheric greenhouse gases back into the climate safety and stability zone by the end of the 21st century.
 The world reached over 420 ppm in 2021, the highest level in the 3.
6 million years since temperatures were 4C (7F) hotter and sea levels were 24 meters (78 feet) higher than today.
 Greens call for a World War II-scale mobilization to carry through this emergency climate program.
 During World War II, the federal government took over a quarter of US manufacturing capacity in order to turn industry on a dime into what President Roosevelt called the Arsenal of Democracy to defeat the fascist powers.
 We need to do nothing less through the public sector to defeat climate change.
 It is too late for public incentives to private industry such as tax breaks, subsidies, and contracts to make the clean energy transition as the progressive Democrats Green New Deal proposes to do.
 This approach cannot coordinate and integrate the clean energy transition on a rapid timescale across all productive sectorsnot only electric power (25% of greenhouse gas emissions), but also transportation (29%), manufacturing (23%), buildings (13%), and agriculture (10%).
 Private industry will not phase out dirty energy sources as long as its existing plants and equipment are profitable.
 Greens call for social ownership and democratic planning in order to make a rapid coordinated transition to 100% clean energy and zero-to-negative greenhouse gas emissions.
 This Green Economy Reconstruction Program will socialize key productive sectors, notably energy production, power distribution, broadband, railroads and automobiles, a greatly expanded public housing sector, and a domestic manufacturing sector to be rebuilt on an ecological basis of clean power and zero waste.
 The Ecosocialist Green New Deal is an economic justice as well as climate justice program that enacts an Economic Bill of Rights that guarantees living-wage jobs, incomes above poverty, affordable housing, quality health care, lifelong public education, and a secure retirement.
 The Green Economy Reconstruction Program directly contributes to the goals of the Economic Bill of Rights by providing tens of millions of high-quality jobs, and profoundly increasing the overall power of working people by virtually eliminating unemployment, underemployment, and poverty incomes.
 Because these publicly-created jobs will be union jobs, it will also contribute to the workers power by radically increasing the proportion of unionized workers in the economy.
 Declare a Climate Emergency   The president should declare the climate crisis a national emergency, which gives the president powers under existing laws to take many immediate steps to address the climate crisis without needing congressional legislation.
 The president should create a cabinet-level Office of Climate Mobilization to coordinate all federal agencies and economic planning to meet climate safety and justice goals.
 The president should then seek congressional legislation to implement an Ecosocialist Green New Deal.
 The key policies and programs in this program should include the following:   Stop New Fossil Fuel and Other Dirty Energy Infrastructure   Greens call for a halt to all new fossil fuel infrastructure (fracking, oil and gas pipelines, gas-fired power plants).
 Existing infrastructure is more than sufficient to deliver fossil fuels during the transition as they are phased out.
 Greens also call for a halt to so-called low carbon dirty energy industries and for their rapid phase-out, including nuclear power; fossil fuel carbon capture and sequestration; waste incinerators; large-scale biofuels such as factory farm biogas, landfill gas, and wood pellets; hydrogen from fossil fuels; large-scale ecosystem-altering hydropower; and market-based accounting systems like carbon offsets.
 Clean energy includes solar, wind, geothermal, tidal, wave, and small-scale hydro.
 Public Energy System   Socialize all power generation and distribution utilities and private energy corporations into a public energy system in order to rapidly implement the transition to 100% clean energy generation and distribution.
 The public energy system will operate at cost for public benefit rather than cost-plus-profit for owners.
 For-profit private utilities will not build the smart grid necessary to incorporate the distributed nature of renewables and to implement energy conservation and efficiency in energy use because the private utilities are more profitable continuing to use the servo-mechanical grid based on centralized power plants.
 The public energy system should be governed from the bottom-up by a decentralized federation of elected local/regional public energy districts that in turn elect state and federal boards for state and federal coordination.
 Electrified Transportation   Socialize the railroad and automotive industries into a public transportation system to rapidly electrify transportation powered by clean energy sources.
 The public transportation system should be governed from the bottom up by a decentralized federation of elected local/regional public transportation districts that in turn elect state and federal boards for state and federal coordination.
 Intra-city mass transit and inter-city freight rails and high-speed passenger rails should move energy- and resource-inefficient personal vehicles and freight trucking on roads onto electrified passenger and freight rails.
 Urban planning should encourage walkable and bikeable neighborhoods through pedestrian and bike lanes on roads and rezoning single-family residence zones into mixed use zones.
 Ecological Manufacturing   Build a public manufacturing system that can rebuild manufacturing in the U.
 The public manufacturing system will prioritize developing publicly-owned companies for clean energy and zero waste in key industries that must be transformed to reach 100% clean energy, such as zero-carbon cement manufacturing and replacing coke ovens with electric arc furnaces and green-hydrogen blast furnaces for steel production.
 The machine tool industry, which builds factory equipment, must be rebuilt in order to build clean-energy, zero-waste manufacturing equipment for all sectors.
 Policy should require that manufacturing products are returned to their manufacturer when used up to be reused and recycled into the next generation of products.
 This zero-waste approach includes a rapid phase-out of petrochemical plastics and their replacement by biodegradable and inert packaging and product parts, including paper and glass.
 The public manufacturing system should have a training program that enables the workers in these publicly-owned companies if they so choose to lease the factories from the public energy system and manage them as worker cooperatives.
 Regenerative Agriculture   The Green New Deal for agriculture will replace pesticides, chemical fertilizers, and large-scale industrialized factory farms based on monocropping and Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations with regenerative organic agroecology by working farmers on small and medium-sized farms.
 It will ban absentee and corporate ownership of farms and ranches.
 It will subsidize the transition of farmers to organic production.
 It will provide community-owned farmland to enable farmers to stay on farms where land prices rise too high.
 It will provide parity pricing and supply management to insure all working farmers have a decent income above their costs of production.
 In coordination with the public manufacturing system, it will provide ecological farm machinery and regional food and fiber processing and manufacturing in farming districts.
 Regenerative agriculture will be a major contributor to carbon drawdown by rebuilding carbon-rich living soil and integrating the agroecologies of farms into surrounding ecosystems.
 Public Housing and Walkable Communities   Expand public housing until every person has an affordable housing option.
 Rehabilitate existing and build new public housing that is powered by clean energy.
 Public housing will be open to anyone so that low-income, working-class, and middle-class people live in the same developments and reduce race and class segregation.
 Priority placement should be given to low-income people as the expanded public housing sector is built out in order to house the homeless as soon as possible.
 Coordinate the rehabilitation of existing and the building of new public housing with public transportation and the placement of ecological manufacturing in order to transform urban landscapes into walkable, bikeable communities.
 The public housing system should be governed from the bottom up by a decentralized federation of elected local/regional public housing authorities that in turn elect state and federal boards for state and federal coordination.
 Develop organic urban farms and farm belts around cities and towns to increase access to fresh food and employment options in agriculture.
 Public Broadband   Build a public broadband system providing free internet to all and public cloud systems that allow individuals, government, and organizations to construct public alternatives to near-monopolies like Amazon Web Services and Facebook.
 Universal internet is necessary for equal educational opportunity and access to information as well as implementation of a smart grid for the efficient use of renewable energy sources.
 The public broadband system should be governed from the bottom up by a decentralized federation of elected local/regional broadband utility boards that in turn elect state and federal boards for state and federal coordination.
 Negative Emissions Programs   Create a Civilian Conservation Corps employing several million people in natural carbon sequestration projects that restore biospheric carbon sinks, including forests, soils, wetlands, and mangroves in the U.
 The corps should also work to restore and enhance public recreation and park infrastructure and to clean up hazardous waste sites.
 Climate science now recognizes that warming above the 1.
5C will significantly increase the potential onset of tipping points leading to catastrophic climate change with impacts far worse than we now witness.
 To keep warming below this IPCC-recognized target, near-future radical reduction of global fossil fuel consumption coupled with negative carbon emissions will be imperative.
 Further, the 2021 6th IPCC Report emphasizes that curbing methane emissions will have significant benefits in slowing down global warming.
 Climate security requires negative greenhouse gas emissions and not the net zero goal now promoted by the U.
 Net zero is a cover for unaccountable carbon offsets and corporate land grabbing, especially in the global South.
 Net zero is an excuse to prolong consumption of fossil fuels and emissions of CO2.
 Because the carbon-storing capacity of natural carbon sequestration is uncertain, Greens also believe it is prudent to research and develop other ways of drawing carbon out of the atmosphere in order to return to the climate safety zone.
 Biospheric carbon sequestration may have to be augmented by geospheric carbon sequestration.
 Greens call for research and development of a solar-powered industrial acceleration of weathering that fixes carbon in the Earths crust in the natural geological carbon cycle.
 Demonstration projects have already shown it is feasible to combine water and CO2 to react chemically in basalt rock formations to create carbonates that fix carbon to the rocks in the Earths crust for geological time scales.
 Climate and Ecological Debt   Acknowledge and pay the climate and ecological debt the U.
 has incurred as the worlds largest historical carbon emitter and destroyer of carbon-storing forests, wetlands, and soils.
 climate debt is not only due to its historical emissions.
 It is part of a broader ecological debt from the destruction of carbon-storing forests, soils, and wetlands by the resource-extracting foreign corporations of the Global North that have expropriated the resources, destroyed the biodiversity, and impoverished the people of the Global South.
 are linked to this destruction of biodiversity by the globalization of supply chains and trade.
 This ecologically unequal exchange exploits the rainforests, agricultural lands, and fisheries of the Global South to provide wood, palm oil, and other food and fiber products to the rich countries.
 is the worlds biggest importer of the tropical products of the Global South, which means the U.
 is the top destroyer of carbon-storing and ecosystem-stabilizing biodiversity.
 Paying this climate and ecological debt would not only be reparations to the Global South to help those countries make the transition to sustainable clean energy economies.
 Paying this debt is also an investment in the habitability of the planet for everyone.
 Just Transition   Enact a Just Transition program that guarantees that workers and communities affected by the transition to clean energy are kept whole during the transition.
 The Just Transition program will guarantee workers up to five years of their current wages and benefits, or a good pension for early retirement for those who choose it or can no longer work.
 Communities that lose tax revenues due the closure of power and manufacturing plants will receive equal revenues until new Green New Deal plants make up the loss.
 Economic Bill of Rights   The Ecosocialist Green New Deal includes an Economic Bill of Rights:   Job Guarantee  A public living-wage job for those who cannot find work in the private sector.
 Income Guarantee  A guaranteed minimum income above poverty built into the progressive income tax structure as monthly payments to bring people above the poverty line whose incomes are below it.
 Housing Guarantee  An expansion of public housing until every person has an affordable housing option.
 Universal Health Care  A single public payer covering all medically necessary services for all.
 Lifelong Public Education  Tuition-free public education from child care and pre-K through post-secondary college and trade schools.
 Secure Retirement  An increase in Social Security benefits so every recipient has an income above poverty.
 Financing the Green New Deal   The Green Partys 2020 presidential campaign produced a Budget for an Ecosocialist Green New Deal that estimated sector by sector its cost of implementation over ten years, as well as the number of jobs it would create.
 The Green Economy Reconstruction Program to reach 100% clean energy and zero emissions is estimated to be a 10-year, $27.
 It would create 30,484,000 jobs, including 8,564,000 jobs in manufacturing.
 The Economic Bill of Rights is estimated to cost $1.
 It would create another 7,586,000 jobs, including 304,000 manufacturing jobs.
 The total for the Ecosocialist Green New Deal came to $42 trillion over ten years.
 Total jobs created is 38,070,000, including 8,868,000 manufacturing jobs.
 The Ecosocialist Green New Deal proposes to pay for its program from a variety of short-term and long-term sources, including:   Progressive Tax Reform  Close tax havens and implement (more) progressive taxes on wealth, estates, personal income, corporate income, and financial transactions.
 Ecological Taxes  The point of ecological taxes is not to raise revenues but reduce pollution and resource destruction.
 If they are successful, they eliminate the source of their revenue.
 As such, they should not be considered long-term revenue sources but can be useful for shorter-term financing of environmental goals.
 Ecological taxes are scarcity rents on the use of natural resources, such as the atmosphere, land, fossil fuels, and mineral resources.
 While ecological taxes are not a substitute for social ownership and economic planning in a green energy transition, they can be part of economic planning to disincentivize fossil fuel use and natural resource extraction, dumping, and depletion.
 Three ecological taxes should be instituted to support the Ecosocialist Green New Deal.
 A carbon tax will disincentivize fossil fuel use and do so internationally because carbon taxes function as a tariff on high-carbon imports, encouraging firms and nations that want to export products to the US to lower their carbon content.
 Land value taxation enables the whole community to benefit from the land values of a limited resource instead of a landowning class.
 Its revenues could be dedicated to funding affordable homes, farms, and business locations.
 Federal severance taxes on non-renewable resources, including reform of the 1872 Mining Law that now enables corporations to purchase mineral rights on public lands for a mere $5 an acre and pay no severance tax for minerals taken.
 Peace Conversion  Deep cuts in the US military budget on the order of 50% to 75% and reallocating the savings into the Ecosocialist Green New Deal.
 Public Money  Greens favor Monetary Reform based on the creation of debt-free public money by a Monetary Authority in the Treasury Department and spending that money into the economy through the federal budget, including the budget for the Ecosocialist Green New Deal.
 Borrowing  Progressive and ecological taxes and reallocating military spending to the Ecosocialist Green New Deal may not generate enough revenue to make the massive investments immediately needed to rapidly transform the economy to clean energy.
 Climate breakdown will cost much more than not making those investments.
 So pending Green Monetary Reform, the federal government may have to borrow to make the needed investments.
 In such borrowing, Greens favor a program of Green Quantitative Easing where the Federal Reserve creates the money to buy the Treasury securities issued to support the Green New Deal investments.
 This quantitative easing by the Federal Reserve would be used to bail out the planet and the people instead of the big banks as happened in the wake of the Great Recession.
 Public Banks  Greens favor the creation of public banks at the local, state, and federal levels to help finance and target Green New Deal and other socially beneficial investments.
 Sales of Public Goods and Services  The Ecosocialist Green New Deal will be producing and selling public goods and services through the public sector and receiving income for them, including power bill payments, transit fees, housing rents, and green machinery leases.
 Over time, these revenues should cover the costs of the initial borrowing like any successful business investment.
 Strong International Climate Treaty   The climate treaty reached in Paris in December, 2015 is inadequate to address the climate change crisis.
 The 195 nations involved pledged to reduce greenhouse gases.
 The treaty does not require the phase out of fossil fuels, and it delays higher aid levels for poorer nations until 2025.
 We call for legally binding commitments for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2020 and a 95% reduction by 2030 over 1990 levels.
 Economic Policy For A Safer Climate   Enact a Fee & Dividend system on fossil fuels to enable the free market to include the environmental costs of their extraction and use.
 These fees shall be applied as far upstream as possible, either when fuel passes from extraction to refining, distribution or consumption; or when it first enters the United States' jurisdiction.
 The carbon fee will initially be small, a dime per kilogram of carbon, to avoid creating a shock to the economy.
 The fee will be increased by 10% each year that global atmospheric carbon dioxide content is greater than 350 ppm, decreased 10% each year it's less than 300 ppm, and repealed entirely when it falls below 250 ppm.
 Although imported fossil fuel has no more impact on global climate change than domestic, importing petroleum and natural gas has a catastrophic impact on American foreign policy and the American economy.
 We will enact this same fee on imported fossil fuels a second time to give the free market an incentive to wean America off foreign oil and gas.
 The Green Party calls for elimination of subsidies for fossil fuels, nuclear power, biomass and waste incineration and biofuels.
 We must also acknowledge that the bulk of our military budget is, in fact, an indirect subsidy for oil & gas corporations.
 To prevent perverse incentives arising from higher carbon prices, the Green Party mandates clean fuels in addition to pricing carbon.
 Otherwise dirty energy sources like nuclear power, biomass and biofuels that are not subject to carbon pricing will become economically competitive.
 Repay Our Climate Debt   Pay for adaptation to climate change in countries with less responsibility for climate change.
 Provide a carbon neutral development path for those countries that can no longer be permitted to develop in the same way we didby burning cheap fossil fuels.
 More Efficiency And Conservation   Adopt energy efficiency standards that reduce energy demand economy-wide by 50% over the next 2030 years.
 can make massive reductions in its energy use through a combination of conservation and efficiency measures.
 Instead, we can and should reduce our consumption of power.
 Build an efficient, low cost public transportation system.
 The best incentive we can provide to live closer to work and reduce the use of private vehicles is to make the alternative inexpensive and convenient to use.
 The less we consume and throw away, the less we will need to produce and replace.
 Clean, Green Energy and Jobs   Create an inclusive program to train workers for the new, clean energy economy.
 Focusing on both the environment and social justice, prioritize the creation of green jobs in communities of color and low-income communities.
 Transition to 100 percent renewable energy by 2030 using wind, solar, ocean, small-scale hydro, and geothermal power.
 Nuclear energy is massively polluting, dangerous, financially risky, expensive and slow to implement.
 Our money is better spent on wind, solar, geothermal, conservation and small-scale hydroelectric.
" Many of the "solutions" offered in climate legislation aren't real solutions.
 Biomass incineration (trees, crops, construction debris and certain types of waste), landfill gas and many types of biofuels will dump massive quantities of toxic pollutants into the air and water, and some of these energy sources produce more greenhouse gas emissions than coal.
 Natural gas is primarily methane, which is 25 times more potent than carbon dioxide as a greenhouse gas.
 Consequently, when pipeline leakage is considered, the clean-burning characteristics of natural gas can be lost, resulting in a fuel with climate impacts as bad as coal.
 Biomass and biofuels will also increase deforestation, contributing to more carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.
 Regenerative Agriculture   End industrialized agriculture methods, including monocropping, reliance on synthetic fertilizers and pesticides, and the use of confined animal operations, all of which are high-order contributors to atmospheric greenhouse gases.
 Convert our food producing systems to small-scale organic, regenerative agriculture (agroecology) systems to restore soil health, sequester carbon, foster biodiversity, discourage the currently unsustainable level of meat consumption, and secure robust ecosystem services for a sustainable future.
 Replace subsidization of industrially produced agricultural products with support for small producers employing organic, regenerative agricultural methods.
 Localize food distribution systems to minimize waste, build rural communities, and eliminate reliance on fossil fuels.
 Carbon Sequestration Using Ecological Restoration   To stabilize the climate, limiting emissions is not enough; carbon must be removed from the atmosphere and sequestered in the ground.
 Ecological restoration is a valuable tool to achieve this and it will increase the quality of living for all.
 When forests, grasslands, and farmlands are restored, they act as carbon sinks and improve the health of the soil.
 Greens support creating a federal program under the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for carbon sequestration to fund local public initiatives that:   Plant trees, reforest and afforest public lands   Revegetate grasslands with native species to prevent desertification and improve climate resilience   Encourage the use of regenerative agricultural techniques   Restore ecosystems on privately-owned lands by providing incentives to landowners.
 Energy   The United States has a high-energy-consumption economy based mainly on fossil energy.
 The extraction, refining, and combustion of fossil fuels have proved extremely harmful to the environment, and supplies are rapidly being depleted.
 Over the past century, the infrastructure of our civilization has become utterly dependent on plentiful oil, coal, and natural gas: vast land, air, and sea transportation networks; increasing dependence on imported goods; industrialized food production dependent on fertilizer and biocides; and sprawling, car-dependent neighborhoods and workplaces.
 Our electric grid depends on fossil fuels for two-thirds of its energy.
 Dirty and dangerous energy sources have generated an unparalleled assault on the environment and human rights.
, low income communities and communities of color bear the greatest burden of health impacts due to exposure to emissions from coal and gas-fired power plants.
 Native American communities have been devastated by uranium mining, and the people of Appalachia watch helplessly as their ancient mountains are destroyed for coal-fired electricity.
 Regional and global peaks in supply are driving up costs and threatening wars and social chaos.
 [ See section on Climate Change, above ]   Since 1859 when the first commercial oil well was drilled in Pennsylvania, the global community has consumed about half what nature generated over hundreds of millions of years.
 Although coal is more abundant than oil, it is inherently dirtier than oil, is limited in terms of its use as a vehicle fuel, and demand is skyrocketing globally for use in electricity generation.
 Natural Gas is also in high demand for power production and is ultimately finite.
 We must plan and prepare for the end of fossil fuels now, while we still have energy available to build the cleaner, more sustainable energy infrastructure that we will soon need.
 To simply substitute better energy sources in place of fossil fuels is not the answer for two main reasons.
 First, there are no energy sources (renewable or otherwise) capable of supplying energy as cheaply and in such abundance as fossil fuels currently yield in the time that we need them to come online.
 Second, we have designed and built our infrastructure to suit the unique characteristics of oil, natural gas, and coal.
 The energy transition cannot be accomplished with a minor retrofit of existing energy infrastructure.
 Just as our fossil fuel economy differs from the agrarian economy of 1800, the post-fossil fuel economy of 2050 will be profoundly different from all that we are familiar with now.
 Changes would occur if we wait for the price of fossil fuels to reflect scarcity, forcing society to adapt; however, lack of government planning will result in a transition that is chaotic, painful, destructive, and possibly not survivable.
 The Green Party advocates a rapid reduction in energy consumption through energy efficiency and a decisive transition away from fossil and nuclear power toward cleaner, renewable, local energy sources.
 Encourage Conservation   Encourage conservation and a significant decrease in our energy consumption, institute national energy efficiency standards.
S residents consume twenty-six percent of the world's energy.
 consumption of electricity is almost nine times greater than the average for the rest of the world.
 must retrofit its building stock for energy efficiency.
 residents live in homes that require heat during the winter, and most are inadequately insulated.
 Buildings in the South require air conditioning during the summer.
 Fuel shortages, power outages, and energy price hikes could bring not just discomfort, but a massive increase in mortality from cold and heat.
 Millions of buildings can and must be super-insulated and, as much as possible, provided with alternative heat sources (passive solar, geothermal, or district heating).
 Energy efficiency standards similar to those in California must be adopted nationally.
 The energy efficiency standards adopted there in the late 1970s have resulted in overall electricity-use remaining flat over the past three decades while the population has steadily increased.
 During the same time period electricity use in the rest of the U.
 There are many different ways to increase energy efficiency and the best path for one region of the country might differ from that of another.
 We will need concerted effort to increase efficiency in every sector of our economy.
 Technologies exist that, if widely implemented, can result in huge energy savings.
 Cogeneration and use of waste heat to generate electricity should be encouraged.
 A carbon tax, which the Green Party supports, would serve as an important market incentive to increase efficiency.
 Move to Renewable Sources   Move decisively to an energy system based on solar, wind, geo-thermal, marine, and other cleaner renewable energy sources.
 The development of Earth-gentle, sustainable energy sources must be a cornerstone of any plan to reduce reliance on conventional fossil fuels.
 The Green Party advocates clean renewable energy sources such as solar, wind, geothermal, marine-based, and other cleaner renewable sources as the long-term solution.
 Many other solutions being pushed, including nuclear power, coal, industrial-scale biofuels, and low-grade fossil fuels such as oil shale and tar sands, create more problems than they solve.
 Further research with increased government support is needed into new energy storage technologies, as well as new cheaper and non-toxic photovoltaic materials and processes, and new geothermal and ocean power technologies.
 Policy tools to directly support the development of renewable energy sources, such as Renewable Portfolio Standards (RPS) and Feed-in Tariffs, should also be reviewed for effectiveness.
 In general, a feed-in tariff is legislation enacted by the government that requires the large electric utilities to guarantee a price for the renewably generated electricity fed into the grid.
 When done right, such as in Germany, this policy appears to succeed in harnessing entrepreneurial zeal.
 State-level financing policies like California's AB 811 can help homeowners install expensive renewable energy where the county pays the up-front cost and the system is paid for via the homeowner's property taxes.
 Greens support voluntary purchase of tradable renewable energy certificates; however, voluntary approaches are not sufficient.
 Greens support research into advanced fuels when the purpose of the research is to develop a fuel that in its full cycle does not create more problems than it solves.
 We support the use of hydrogen as an energy storage medium; however we oppose the use of nuclear technologies or carbon-based feedstocks for hydrogen production.
 We call for a ban on the construction of large-scale and inappropriately-located, hydroelectric dams.
 Eliminate dirty & dangerous energy sources   The Green Party advocates the phase-out of nuclear and coal power plants.
 All processes associated with nuclear power are dangerous, from the mining of uranium to the transportation and disposal of the radioactive waste.
 Coal is the largest contributor to climate change with estimates as high as 80%.
 It is hazardous for thousands of years and there is no way to isolate it from the biosphere for the duration of its toxic life.
 Cost is another huge factor making it unfeasible, with each new nuclear power plant costing billions of dollars.
 The Green Party calls for a formal moratorium on the construction of new nuclear power plants, the early retirement of existing nuclear power reactors, and the phase-out of technologies that use or produce nuclear waste, such as nuclear waste incinerators, food irradiators, and all uses of depleted uranium.
 We call for a ban on mountaintop removal coal mining.
 With limited supplies and in the absence of commercially viable "clean coal" carbon sequestration, which may never be feasible, coal is neither an economically nor an environmentally sustainable solution.
 We call for the cessation of development of fuels produced with polluting, energy-intensive processes or from unsustainable or toxic feed stocks, such as genetically-engineered crops, coal and waste streams contaminated with persistent toxics.
 We oppose further oil and gas drilling or exploration on our nation's outer continental shelf, on our public lands, in the Rocky Mountains, and under the Great Lakes.
 Due to serious negative impacts on food, soil, and water, we oppose industrial-scale biofuels production and biomass burning for electric power generation.
 We approve small scale distributed production under local control, such as production of biodiesel from waste oils, production of charcoal and byproducts from wood wastes or sustainably harvested wood, small scale production of ethanol from crop wastes or maize stalk sugar, or production of fuel gas for localized electricity generation from anaerobic methane digesters or charcoal gasifiers.
 We do not object to the utilization of fuel gases seeping from landfills, as that is one way to reduce air pollution.
 We support as a minimum standard the Principles for Sustainable Biomass statement signed by Clean Water Action, Environmental Defense Fund, Environmental Working Group, Friends of the Earth, Geos Institute, Greenpeace USA, National Wildlife Federation, Natural Resources Defense Council, Southern Alliance for Clean Energy, Southern Environmental Law Center, Union of Concerned Scientists, The Wilderness Society, and World Wildlife Fund.
 The Green Party stands for the enactment of bans on hydraulic fracturing for natural gas and oil on the local, state and federal level and stands for bans on the disposal of wastes created by the fracking industry.
 Decentralize the Grid   Plan for decentralized, bioregional electricity generation and distribution.
 Decentralized power systems are likely to be more resilient in the face of power disruptions and will cut transmission losses, assure citizens greater control of their power grids, and prevent the massive ecological and social destruction that accompanies production of electricity in mega-scale projects.
 The federal government must step in to set goals and standards and to provide capital.
 This effort must not favor commercial utilities over municipal power districts.
 The Green Party supports net metering to make decentralized energy production economically viable.
 Greens support tax-exempt bonds to finance public ownership of utilities and to allow publicly owned utilities to finance conservation and renewable energy projects.
 Re-localize the Food System   De-carbonize and re-localize the food system.
 Our national industrial food system is overwhelmingly dependent upon oil and natural gas for farm-equipment fuel, fertilizer, pesticides, herbicides, and the transport.
 It is responsible for over 12% of all greenhouse gases from human activities in the U.
 New farming methods, new farmers, and a re-localization of production and distribution are needed.
 These will require land reform, an investment in revitalizing rural areas and the creation of local food processing plants and storage centers.
 Laws and incentives affecting the food system (including food safety laws and farm subsidies) will need to be rewritten to provide preferential support for small-scale, local, low-input producers.
 Electrify the Transportation System   Our enormous investment in highways, airports, cars, buses, trucks, and aircraft is almost completely dependent on oil, and it will be significantly handicapped by higher fuel prices, and devastated by actual fuel shortages.
 The electrification of road-based vehicles is a must and will require at least two decades to fully deploy and we must move to Earth-gentle electricity generation to charge the vehicles.
 Meanwhile, existing private automobiles must be put to use more efficiently through carpooling, car-sharing, and ride-sharing networks.
 [ See Transportation section below for more, including need for dramatic increase in CAFE or gasoline efficiency standards ]     7.
 Requirements for Energy Transition   Investment: Enormous amounts of investment capital will be needed to accomplish the energy transition, much more than the promise of $150 billion for renewable energy over ten years, and must now come from government.
 Coordination: The energy transition will be complex and comprehensive, and its various strategies will be mutually impacting.
 For example, efforts to redirect transport away from highways and toward rail service will need to be coordinated with manufacturers, farmers, retailers, and employers.
 An independent federal Energy Transition Office should track and manage the transition.
 Education: Community colleges should prepare workers for new job opportunities, e.
, sustainable food production, renewable energy installation, grid rebuilding, rail expansion, public transport construction, and home energy retrofitting.
 Grade school curriculum should include gardening programs in all schools and increased emphasis on energy conservation.
 Public Messaging & Goal Setting: Our leaders must instill in the nation a sense of collective struggle and of a long journey toward a clear goal.
 The success of a project of this scope will require public buy-in at every stage and level, including the use of language and images to continually underscore what is at stake, to foster a spirit of cooperation and willing sacrifice.
 Business leaders, advertising agencies and even Hollywood must be enlisted, a quid pro quo for government bail out of banks and corporations.
 Grassroots initiatives, such as the Transition Towns movement, could lead the way toward voluntary community efforts.
 A sophisticated, interactive, web-based program would inspire action and provide resources.
 Ratepayers should get full disclosure of the specific electric generating facilities used to produce their electricity.
 A series of challenging yet feasible targets should be set, with the ultimate goalcomplete freedom from fossil fuel dependency  to be achieved by 2030.
 Nuclear Issues   We condemn the Nuclear Regulatory Commissions (NRC) blatant attempt to hijack the term(s) "Green", "Green Energy", "Green Power" in reference to nuclear power for the purpose of promoting so-called new advanced nuclear reactors and relicensing aging conventional reactors under the guise of sustainability.
 This misinformation depicts nuclear power as carbon free, in denial of the mining, milling, manufacturing, and transportation of the fuel and its environmental footprint.
 We see it as a step in the direction of diverting funding from true renewables and efficiency to bolstering the nuclear industry.
 Nuclear power is not a benign operation that would be classified as clean or sustainable if the truth was being told.
 We recognize that there is no such thing as nuclear waste "disposal.
" All six of the "low-level" nuclear waste dumps in the United States have leaked.
 Department of Energy (DOE) halted operations at the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant (WIPP), the country's first nuclear waste repository dedicated to the weapons complex, situated in southern New Mexico, due to two incidents in 2014.
 The DOE has projected that WIPP's current capacity will reach its limit by approximately 2025.
 Additionally, the DOE is confronted with a legal cap on the volume of waste that can be deposited at WIPP.
 Therefore, it is imperative to permanently seal off the repository chambers, implement continuous monitoring, and address the challenge of managing the radioactive waste currently stored on-site.
 There are no technological quick fixes that can effectively isolate nuclear waste from the biosphere for the duration of its hazardous life.
 Therefore, it is essential that generation of additional nuclear wastes be stopped.
 We call for the early retirement of nuclear power reactors as soon as possible and for a phase-out of other technologies that use or produce nuclear waste.
 These technologies include non-commercial nuclear reactors, reprocessing facilities, nuclear waste incinerators, and food irradiators.
 We strongly object to the utilization of depleted uranium in military applications, including its incorporation into bullet tips, artillery shells, and as armor for tanks and other armed vehicles.
 Furthermore, we disapprove of its use as counterweights in nuclear weaponry or for adjusting the yield of nuclear explosions through modifications in the weapon's internal components.
 Current methods of underground storage are a danger to present and future generations.
 We call for the discontinuation of the use of thin-walled canisters for the storage of high-level radioactive wastes and spent fuel.
 These 1/2 to 5/8 thick welded sheet canisters can be developed undetected and cannot be prevented from leaking or explosions.
 Each of the 4,000 loaded canisters contains approximately the same amount of radiation as was released in the 1986 Chernobyl explosion.
 The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) has proposed to transport these canisters by rail through municipalities and countryside to an interim storage facility where they cannot be maintained, monitored, or repaired.
 Any nuclear waste management strategy must be based on waste containers being stored above ground and continuously monitored, and the containers must be retrievable and capable of being repackaged.
 All such strategies must also minimize the transportation of wastes.
 We strongly oppose any shipment of high-level nuclear waste across the U.
 to any proposed "interim storage" facility or to the previously proposed Nevada waste repository at Yucca Mountain, or any other centralized facility.
 We believe that this proposal is part of a move to re-fire a fast-track, commercial nuclear industry by providing a means for "safe disposal.
" We deny there is such a thing as safe disposal of nuclear waste.
 We propose making spent reactor fuel and other high-level wastes safe by vitrification at the site where it is produced or now stored.
 We oppose the use of unaccountable 'quasi-governmental' authorities in the nuclear industry with industry-biased structures and limited or no public oversight.
 We call for all aspects of nuclear regulation, radiation monitoring and waste management to be subject to transparent, democratic processes with full public participation and independent scientific review at all nuclear facilities.
 We condemn the history of criminal activities by nuclear corporations, including bribery of legislators and regulators, and call for comprehensive reforms to prevent such abuses.
 [See Social Justice: Consumer Protection]   We support an immediate and intensive campaign to educate the public about nuclear problems, including disposal, cleanup, and long-term dangers.
 We oppose the Risch/Manchin bipartisan Civil Nuclear Export Act of 2023 that would allow mass exports of weapons-proliferating Small Modular Reactors (SMR's)   We oppose public subsidies for nuclear power, including Price-Anderson insurance caps and stranded cost recovery bailouts.
 We oppose federal loan guarantees to enable the construction of a new generation of nuclear reactors.
 We oppose the development and use of new nuclear reactors, including so-called 'advanced' reactors and Small Modular Reactors (SMRs), plutonium (MOX) fuel, nuclear fuel reprocessing, nuclear fusion, uranium enrichment, and the manufacturing of new plutonium pits for a new generation of nuclear weapons.
 We oppose the deregulation of radioactive materials and wastes, which is allowing such wastes to be recycled into consumer products and to enter municipal waste landfills and incinerators.
 We call for the strict regulation, tracking, monitoring, and recapturing of radioactive materials and wastes.
 We call for the immediate extension and expansion of the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (RECA) to provide jurisdiction and procedures for claims for compassionate payments for injuries due to exposure to radiation from nuclear testing.
We oppose granting patents for engineering that creates or refines nuclear weapon technology, or that facilitates the further proliferation of nuclear power reactors here and around the world.
 [See Economic Justice: Advanced Technology]      D.
 Transportation   The Green Party supports a transportation policy that emphasizes the use of mass transit and alternatives to the automobile and truck for transport.
 We call for major public investment in mass transportation, so that such systems are cheap or free to the public and are safe, accessible, and easily understandable to first-time users.
 We need ecologically sound forms of transportation that minimize pollution and maximize efficiency.
 Surfaces impermeable to rainwater, polluted storm run-off; paved over or polluted wetlands, the heat island effect, air pollution, and acid rain are all directly related to a transportation system run amuck.
 Massive subsidies to the auto and fossil fuel industries, as well as an unworkable approach by urban planners, maintain the auto's dominance of our cityscapes.
 The present-day approach of upgrading streets to accommodate increased traffic generates new traffic because access is now easier, and people will now take jobs further from their homes or purchase homes further from their jobs.
 Some people shift from public transit to private cars due to the trip time in cars being shorter.
 As patronage for public transit decreases, public transit loses funding, becomes less viable, and service deteriorates thus encouraging even more people to use their cars.
 To counteract these trends and reduce auto use, the Green Party advocates the following strategies:     1.
 Pedestrians and Bicyclists   Make streets, neighborhoods and commercial districts more pedestrian friendly.
 Utilize traffic-calming methods, where the design of streets promotes safe speeds and safe interaction with pedestrians.
 Develop extensive networks of bikeways, bicycle lanes and paths.
 Maintain free community bicycle fleets, and provide necessary support for cyclists.
 Mass Transit   Redirect resources that currently go to enhancing auto capacity into expanding human-scale transit options.
 Develop affordable mass transit systems that are more economical to use than private vehicles.
 Encourage employer subsidies of transit commuter tickets for employees, funded by government Congestion Management grants.
 Use existing auto infrastructure for transit expansion where possible.
 Light rail could be established in expressway medians through metropolitan high-density corridors.
 Include land use decisions in transportation issues, with consideration of the need for mass transit to have a market and be viable, and with attention paid to crosscommuting the practice of people commuting to a place where they could and should live.
 Expand our country's network of rail lines, including high-speed regional passenger service.
 Transfer ownership and operation of all intercity railroad trackage currently under control of freight railroads to responsible and adequately funded public agencies, as is done with highways, to provide for efficiency and safety of all rail traffic.
 Motor Vehicles   Place a moratorium on highway widening, appropriating funds instead for mass transit and facilities for pedestrians and bicyclists.
 Mandate HOV (High Occupancy Vehicle) lanes on freeways, and lower tolls for carpools.
 Discourage unnecessary auto use by eliminating free parking in non-residential areas well served by mass transit, and establish preferential parking rates for HOV.
 Regularly increase Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards to levels which truly challenge automakers to improve the state of the art, using the fuel economy performance of vehicles worldwide for reference.
 Eliminate the distinction between cars and light trucks, the footprint loophole, the E85 loophole and the 8500-pound exemption.
 Eliminate the perverse incentives for alternative fuels that increase the nation's petroleum consumption.
 Enact a Fee & Dividend system on the carbon content of gasoline, Diesel fuel and E85.
 Enact a fuel-economy-based Federal sales tax that creates a significant incentive for people to select more efficient vehicles, and for automakers to make them available in the United States.
 Lead by example, using government procurement to put more high-efficiency and alternative-fuel vehicles into service.
 Electrify truck stops, freight terminals and loading docks.
 Idling engines consume nearly a billion gallons of gasoline and Diesel fuel and emit ten million tons of carbon dioxide annually (2007 data).
 Encourage carpooling programs, telecommuting, and other creative solutions to reduce commuter traffic congestion.
 Remove the most-polluting vehicles from the road by requiring every vehicle to comply with the emission standards in effect when it was manufactured before issuing or renewing its license.
 Air Travel   Aviation contributes around 4% to human-induced global warming, more than most countries do.
 This problem has multiple parts, including government, business and personal travel, and the global supply chain which ships cargo by air.
 Due to technological progress, much travel for meetings and conferences could take place online, eliminating those air trips.
 We propose the following actions to reduce air travel greenhouse gas emissions, as one part of the solution to the life threatening problem of climate change:   Continue government travel policy guidelines to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from government travel.
 Provide incentives to reduce business and conference air travel.
 Provide incentives to improve technology for virtual meetings.
 Enact tax deductions for investments in virtual meeting equipment.
 Repeal tax deductions for business and conference travel.
 Provide incentives for the development of alternative long distance, fuel efficient travel.
 Make airports accessible by local transit systems.
 Legislate further incremental reductions in airplane noise and air pollution.
 Emphasize the use of light and heavy rail for freight transportation.
 Freight   We call for incentives to get long-distance truck hauling off of our highways and on to railways.
 We favor the removal of any administrative impediments to efficient long-haul freight transport by rail.
 Time is lost when switching goods from one railroad to another, even when the trains are the same size and gauge, and this waste can be eliminated.
 OUR POSITION   Greens will shift our nation toward clean production and principles of zero waste.
 A waste-free society is essential to public health and the integrity and sustainability of the biosphere.
 Natural ecosystems are self-sustaining and generate no waste.
 We humans are a part of these ecosystems, and while we obtain resources from them, we have a responsibility to return only those things that can be re-absorbed without detriment.
 Waste is not an inevitable part of production and consumption, as it is viewed in the current economic model.
 GREEN SOLUTIONS   Phase out all avoidable production and sale of toxic metals, persistent organic pollutants, persistent bio-accumulative toxins, synthetic petrochemicals, and halogenated chemicals.
 Make manufacturers responsible for the full life cycle of their products by requiring them to take back used products and packaging for remanufacturing, reuse, or recycling.
 Support and implement the precautionary principle: "When an activity raises threats of harm to human health or the environment, precautionary measures should be taken even if some cause and effect relationships are not fully established scientifically.
 In this context the proponent of an activity, rather than the public, should bear the burden of proof.
 The process of applying the precautionary principle must be open, informed and democratic and must include potentially affected parties.
 It must also involve an examination of the full range of alternatives, including no action.
" Strengthen right-to-know laws so that everyone can discover what toxic or potentially toxic chemicals are used and released in their communities, and in products that they might purchase or use.
 Hold corporations strictly liable for the consequences of the pollution they produce.
 We support the Citizens' Platform on Superfund, as adopted at the 1995 Comunities At Risk Superfund Summit in Washington, DC.
 End the use of incineration as a cleanup technology, and ensure that "cleanups" don't simply relocate toxins to chemical waste dumps in poor communities of color.
 Shut down existing waste incinerators, impose a moratorium on new waste incinerators, and phase out landfills.
 For all possible waste streams, we support the following strategies (in order of priority) as alternatives to incineration and landfills: (a) toxics use reduction; (b) source reduction, reuse, clean recycling or composting /digestion; or (c) neutralization, sterilization or detoxification methods where applicable.
 Do not deregulate wastes containing toxic or radioactive contaminants significantly above background levels.
 They should not be allowed to be used in "beneficial use" schemes as fertilizer, "co-products," or fuels; or by "recycling" them into consumer products (including construction materials) or disposing of them as municipal waste.
 Do not export, under any circumstances, chemicals that are prohibited in the United States.
 We oppose shipping of toxic, hazardous, or radioactive wastes across national borders, and the shipment of such wastes without strict regulation across any political borders.
 Waste should not be considered a tradable commodity under the Interstate Commerce Clause.
 Safe, secure, above ground storage for existing nuclear waste.
 We oppose exporting nuclear waste to other nations.
 Strict regulation of radioactive materials and wastes and prohibiting such wastes to be recycled into consumer products and to enter municipal waste landfills and incinerators.
 Close, clean up and remediate at national labs devoted to nuclear energy and weapons development and operations at the Department of Energy's nuclear production sites.
 Clean up depleted uranium contamination from testing ranges and battlefields, and provide generously compensate veterans and civilians who have been sickened by depleted uranium exposure.
 Require independent, transparent radiation monitoring at all nuclear facilities.
 Substitute chemical safety testing on animals with alternatives that do not use animals, wherever such alternative tests or testing strategies are available.
 Clean Air and Ozone Depletion   The strict, comprehensive protections of the Clean Air Act must be maintained and enhanced if we are to keep in place effective federal programs that deal with urban smog, toxic air pollution, acid rain, and ozone depletion.
 State and local clean air initiatives should advance and improve national efforts; for example, moving forward with stricter clean air and fuel efficiency standards, and with vehicle and fleet conversions.
 GPUS recognizes the positive contributions for controlling ozone-destroying substances that have been made by the Montreal Protocol of 1987 and subsequent amendments thereto.
 Some of the chemical replacements for CFCs also damage the ozone layer or are potent greenhouse gases.
 These include hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) and Very Short-Lived Substances (VSLS) such as dichloromethane and other chlorine gases.
 GPUS supports further research on the damaging effects of VSLS on the ozone layer and finding replacements for those causing destruction of ozone, and immediately phasing out their use.
 We call for updated amendments to the Montreal Protocol to keep it consistent with current scientific findings regarding threats to the ozone layer.
 Land Use   OUR POSITION   Land use policies must promote sustainable development and respect ecology.
 Unlimited growth on a finite planet cannot be sustained.
 There is a fundamental difference between growth and development and between quantity and quality.
 Rather than exploiting the Earth for short-term gain, Greens believe in living in sustainable balance with it.
 Land use practices must be founded on stewardship of the Earth, to honor the interconnected and interdependent nature of all life, to respect ecosystems and other species, while at the same time providing for human needs in a responsible and sustainable way.
 Only an economics that is based upon environmental health is sustainable.
 GREEN SOLUTIONS     Land ownership and property rights   Insist that every property right has an implied responsibility to provide for the common good of people, places and the planet.
 Encourage the formation and operation of cooperatives, non-profits, land trusts, co-housing, and other forms of communal and public interest management of land and resources.
 Urban land use   Promote livable urban environments to minimize urban sprawl.
 Promote urban infill with affordable housing, mass transit, schools, jobs, health care, public spaces, bicycle and walking paths, community gardens, open spaces, parks, playgrounds, and urban growth boundaries.
 Green our cities with green belts, energy-efficient infill, distributed solar and wind generation, gray water systems, under grounding of wires and pipelines, redevelopment of brown fields, closed loop, energy-producing sewage systems, watershed protection and urban agriculture.
 Consider the carrying capacities of the bioregions in which our cities are located and attempt to match urban populations to these natural limitations.
 Support environmental justice policies that give communities a voice in planning future development with the goal of preventing concentration of polluting industries and practices in poor and/or minority communities.
 Rural land use   Preserve and expand rural land use patterns that promote open space, healthy ecosystems, wildlife corridors and the ecologically sustainable agriculture.
 Protect and expand large continuous tracts of public and private land for wildlife habitat and biological diversity, to permit healthy, self-managing wildlife populations to exist in a natural state, and to promote complete ecosystems.
 Promote livable rural communities to minimize urban migration.
 Transition rural communities into sustainable relationships with ranching, agriculture, forestry and mining.
 Reward farmers and ranchers for the ecosystem services they provide on private and public lands.
 Favor policies that promote small-scale farmers and ranchers over large-scale corporate agriculture and ranching.
 Public Lands   Repeal the General Mining Law of 1872.
 Enact mining reforms to better balance mining with other important public land uses; provide a fair financial return to taxpayers for resources extracted, and create a fund for clean up of abandoned mines.
 Enact tough new environmental safeguards to protect against mining pollution, including strict curbs on mercury emissions from metal mines.
 Eliminate public subsidies for livestock grazing on public lands.
 Raise grazing fees on public land to approximate fair market value.
 Oppose the sale of any portion our national parks, forests or coastlines.
 Fund and maintain public lands in a healthy and productive state.
 Oppose commercial privatization of the management of these lands.
 Ensure public ownership of natural resources located on public lands.
 Halt federal mineral, oil and gas, and resource giveaways, "royalty holidays," and flagrant concessions to the mining, energy and timber industries on public lands.
 Restore and remediate damaged ecosystems on public lands.
 Protect old growth forests, ban clear cutting and ban industrial timber harvest on public lands.
 Ban indiscriminate wildlife "damage control practices" and abolish Wildlife Services.
 The Green Party calls for an international declaration that water belongs to the Earth and all of its species.
 Government must lead the way in declaring water a fundamental human right and prevent efforts to privatize, export, and sell for profit a substance that is essential to all life.
 According to the United Nations, more than one billion people lack access to safe drinking water.
 If current trends persist, by 2025 as much as two-thirds of the world's population will be living with a serious scarcity of water.
 Multinational corporations recognize these trends and are moving fast to monopolize water supplies around the world.
 They argue that privatizing water is the best way to allocate this valuable resource, and they are scheming to have water declared a human need so that it can be commodified and sold on the open market ensuring that the allocation of water will be based on principles of scarcity and profit maximization.
 With water sold to the highest bidder, the rich will have plenty while the poor will be left with little but polluted water.
 Short-term profits will preclude any concern for long term sustainability.
 We must stop this privatization before the infrastructures become so established that it will be impossible to avoid a disaster of epic proportions.
 Governments are signing away their control over their domestic water supplies by participating in trade treaties such as the North American Free Trade Agreement and in institutions such as the World Trade Organization.
 The World Bank recently adopted a policy of water privatization and full-cost water pricing.
 We need strong national and international laws to promote conservation, reclaim polluted water systems, develop water-supply restrictions, ban toxic and pesticide dumping, control or ban corporate farming, and bring the rule of law to transnational corporations that pollute water systems.
 Mining and depleting the present underground aquifers must be severely restricted.
 Implement strong laws to promote conservation, reclaim polluted water systems, develop water-supply restrictions, ban toxics and pesticide dumping, control corporate farming, and bring the rule of law to trans-state and trans-national operations that pollute water systems   Greens oppose the privatization of water and demand that the U.
 government pass strong laws with effective enforcement mechanisms to assure a safe and adequate supply of water for its citizens and all life within its borders.
 Decisions about water must be based on an ecosystems approach.
 Use an ecosystems/watershed approach to ensure responsible water use.
 All stakeholders need to participate in the planning.
 Environmental justice, ecological impact, and depletion of groundwater supplies need to be integrated with the ongoing process for approval of new withdrawals Cycles of intense drought and flooding have demonstrated the need to reorient our priorities in order to achieve a truly sustainable water policy.
 Over-development and poor planning have resulted in increasing rain-impermeable areas, which compounds the severity and frequency of flooding and pollution in regions downstream.
 We must begin to understand and apply a holistic watershed approach to managing our water resources.
 The principle of bioregionalism (living within the means of a region's natural resources) should give direction to future water policies.
 Conservation must be an essential part of any water policy.
 Water conservation also reduces energy consumption and pollution.
 To conserve water, the Green Party proposes to:   Mandate water efficient appliances and fixtures be used in all new construction, and promote retrofitting of older buildings.
 Promote native landscaping and other drought resistant/ climate-appropriate plants, in order to reduce the need for irrigation.
 Promote drip irrigation systems where irrigation is necessary.
 Eliminate storm water pollution of our water resources through education of our citizens, enforcement of our laws, and holistic watershed management.
 Promote storm water technologies that detain, treat, filtrate, and use storm waters near where it is collected.
 Promote the appropriate reuse of the "gray" and "black" waters we produce.
 Use separation techniques, such as dual piping systems where pure water is used for drinking and washing, and reclaimed water is used for lawn watering and similar purposes.
 Mandate pre-treatment of industrial wastes to eliminate the presence of metals, solvents, and other toxins in sewer water.
 This would reduce the cost of municipal treatment and encourage wastewater reuse.
 Promote and maintain passive and natural systems (such as wetlands) for water and wastewater treatment where appropriate, and enforce regulations against dumping of pollutants through regional Water Quality Control Boards.
 Eliminate water subsidies for corporate agribusiness.
 Higher water prices give agribusiness incentives to conserve.
 Assist community organizations to monitor the use of local resources, and to oversee the enforcement of water quality regulations.
 Preserve and restore the nation's natural water features (streams, rivers, lakes, bays, wetlands and groundwater aquifers) that are vital to achieving sustainable use of water resources.
 Set health and sustainability water quality guidelines for drinking water supported by the peer-reviewed scientific literature.
 Regulations are needed or need improvement, for example, for arsenic, bacteria, viruses, protozoa, fluoridation chemical species such as fluoride and fluorosilicate, water disinfection-by-products, environmental estrogens, and pharmaceuticals (medicines).
 Achieve a truly sustainable water policy in the light of climate change considering, for example, snow packs, aquifer recharge, rising sea levels, and available water supplies.
 Oppose the disproportional political influences of the petroleum, corporate agriculture, mining, timber, real estate and development industries, while working to support family farms, open space, the protection of water quality in our rivers, conservation of watersheds, and the sustainable use and preservation of healthy forest.
 Integrate land use with water use for urban planning decisions.
 Political bodies, such as municipal water authorities, need to be more inclusive in the representation of users, hydrologists, environmental health professionals, and environmental advocates in the region and address the issues affecting the regional supply and demand of the resource, as well as water quality.
 Presently, the interests and concerns of real estate and development interests have a disproportionate voice in new allocations.
 Ensure that municipal water and water systems are publicly owned, publicly sourced from the cleanest natural sources possible, obtained and discharged without harming the bioregion's ecosystem, transported using safe, uncontaminated systems and materials, and treated using scientific methods to render water uncontaminated and safe to drink without health hazard.
 Promptly assess and replace lead pipes in the nation's municipal infrastructure.
 Comprehensive water testing and analysis that includes a wide range of contaminants and radioactivity should be done throughout the municipality and the results published promptly and publicly.
 Public health issues should promptly inform and coincide with water testing.
 Using privatized, bottled water to substitute for a contaminated public water supply is unacceptable.
 Since water is a human right, all humans within the municipality should have full access to affordable, clean, uncontaminated water from the municipal water system for basic needs at all times and without threat of shut-off.
 It is imperative that we protect the waters and shorelines of the Great Lakes, and Greens strongly urge the following actions:   Allocate funds to help upgrade and phase out aging municipal sewage systems and treatment plants, have mandatory inspections, and allow for composting and greywater system alternatives to septic systems.
 Prohibit municipalities from dumping sewage into the Great Lakes with a zero discharge mandate.
 Set clear and enforceable deadlines and standards for reducing nutrient runoff from agricultural lands.
 Devise and implement a plan to stop the release of flame retardants and other toxins into the Great Lakes without further delay.
 Immediately decommission and shut down the aging Enbridge Line 5 oil and gas pipeline under the Straits of Mackinac as it poses an unacceptable risk to the waters of Lake Huron and Lake Michigan.
 Prevent the opening of a new sulfide mining district in northern Wisconsin and Michigans western Upper Peninsula to protect the waters of Lake Michigan and Lake Superior from the inevitable pollution that would be caused by acid mine drainage from such mining.
 Require ocean-going freighters to filter or treat their ballast water to meet high environmentally protective standards.
 Close the Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal to prevent Asian carp from entering the Great Lakes.
 Stop the dumping of toxins by petroleum refineries into the Great Lakes by making it unlawful.
 Such dumping is currently allowed and administered by the EPA through the purchase of permits or licenses.
 Have the Federal government buy and protect more undeveloped areas of Great Lakes coastlines by designating them as National Lakeshores.
 Encourage the planting of buffer strips of vegetation to act as natural filters of toxins and contaminants, prevent erosion, and provide species habitat between waterways and developed land.
 Agriculture   Food is a necessity and a fundamental human right.
 All people have a right to adequate, safe, nutritional and high quality food; and those who grow it have a right to a fair return for their labor.
 The United States' industrialized agriculture system is highly destructive of our environment, of our people's health, and of our society's future.
 Unless it changes radically, we face desertification, ecosystem collapse, mass extinctions, and starvation.
 Our civilization itself is threatened by the loss of the ecosystem services on which it depends for its existence.
 moreover, agriculture is the high-order term in climate change, not only because of the amount of carbon it contributes to the atmosphere, but more importantly because of the vital role it could play in sequestering carbon and restoring a healthy carbon cycle.
 "Regenerative Agriculture," also called "Agroecology" refers to a suite of holistic principles and methods that together have the proven potential to rapidly restore our rural and natural environments to full health, sequestering vast quantities of carbon, restoring ecological balance and biodiversity, building soil, and reversing desertification, all while producing more food of a higher quality.
 It also has the potential to restore agricultural communities to economic independence and security.
 The principles of regenerative agriculture are promoted by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (UN FAO) and by an increasing number of academic institutions involved in agricultural and sustainability research.
 In addition to its positive environmental effects, the adoption of regenerative agriculture throughout the food system will put a stop to unethical confined animal operations, improve the diversity and nutritional content of our food, and rationalize the pricing and distribution of food.
 We call for legislation that assists new and existing farmers and ranchers to convert their operations to regenerative agricultural methods that promote widespread ownership of small and medium-sized farms and ranches, and that revitalizes and repopulates rural communities and promotes sustainable development and stewardship.
 We call for legislation that recognizes, through appropriate regulation, foods that are produced using regenerative methods, including no-till/minimum till, natural soil building techniques, development of natural soil biomes, and set-asides for wildlife alongside cultivated areas.
 We advocate regionalizing our food system and decentralizing agriculture lands, production,and distribution.
 We encourage public support for producer and consumer cooperatives, community kitchens, Community Supported Agriculture, urban agriculture, and community farms and gardens.
 We advocate the creation of a Food Policy Council composed of farmers, including small farmers and consumers, to oversee the USDA and all food policies at the local, state, and national level.
 This council should adjudicate conflicts of interest that arise when industries police themselves.
 We support the highest organic standards (California Organic Certification Standards, for example).
 We advocate shifting price supports and government subsidies to organic, regeneratively produced food products so that they will be competitive with chemically produced food.
 We believe that everyone, not just the wealthy, must be able to afford safe and healthy food.
 We urge the banning of sewage sludge or hazardous wastes as fertilizer, and of irradiation and the use of genetic engineering in all food production.
 We would phase-out man-made pesticides and artificial fertilizers in favor of Integrated Pest Management techniques as part of a regenerative approach to biodiversity in the rural ecosystem.
 Food prices ought to reflect the true cost of food, including the health effects of eating processed foods, antibiotic resistance, pesticide effects on growers and consumers, soil erosion, water pollution, pesticide drift, and air pollution.
 Indirect costs (loss of rural communities, a heavily subsidized transportation system, cost of the military necessary to defend cheap oil, and reduced security), though more difficult to calculate, should be factored into the cost of our highly centralized food system.
 World hunger can best be addressed by food securitybeing self-sufficient for basic needs.
 Overpopulation is largely a consequence, not simply a cause, of poverty and environmental destruction, and all remedial actions must address living standards and food security through sustainable production.
 Because of the tremendous amount of energy used in agriculture, we support farm subsidies to encourage the transition from dirty fuels to regenerative, no-till practices that use clean renewable energy as one of the most effective ways to move our country to a sustainable future.
 We encourage states to promote net-metering to make decentralized energy production economically viable, with subsidies to farm operations transitioning from fossil fuels to renewable energy.
 Animal farming must be practiced in ethically and environmentally sustainable ways.
 We support a rapid phase out of confined animal feeding operations (CAFOs) and a complete transition to an integrated, regenerative agriculture approach to the cultivation, treatment, and use of livestock, not only for environmental reasons, but also for the sake of food safety (e.
 disease epidemics), public health, and animal protection.
 Applying the Precautionary Principle to genetically modified organisms (GMOs), we support a moratorium until safety can be demonstrated by independent (non-corporate funded), long-term tests for food safety, genetic drift, resistance, soil health, effects on non-target organisms, and cumulative interactions.
 Most importantly, we support the growing international demand to eliminate patent rights for genetic material, life forms, gene-splicing techniques, and bio-chemicals derived from them.
 This position is defined by the Treaty to Share the Genetic Commons, which is available through the Institute for Agriculture and Trade Policy.
 The implications of corporate takeover and the resulting monopolization of genetic intellectual property by the bioengineering industry are immense     We support mandatory, full-disclosure food and fiber labeling.
 A consumer has the right to know the contents in their food and fiber, how they were produced, and where they come from.
 Labels should address the presence of GMOs, use of irradiation, pesticide application (in production, transport, storage, and retail), whether organic standards were met, whether regenerative methods were employed in cultivation, and the country of origin.
 We support the restoration of farmlands to African American families who have been discriminated against and who have lost, or are about to lose, their farms as a result.
 Greens will work for a meaningful remedy to restore African American farmers' unencumbered ownership of their land.
 Biological Diversity   Humanity must share the planet with all other species.
 Our continuing destruction of animal habitats threatens an ever-growing number of species with extinction.
 This not only deprives these species of their existence, but will deprive future human generations of the enrichment of having these species on the Earth.
 Ecological systems are diverse and interlocking, and nature's survival strategy can best be found in the adaptability that comes as a result of biological diversity.
 All policies concerning human settlement, food, energy, natural resources, water, coastal development, and industrialization should be formulated to prevent further disruption of the non-human ecosystems' ability to maintain themselves.
 The Green Party supports a strengthened and enforceable Endangered Species Act.
 The Convention on Biological Diversity, first adopted at the Earth Summit in 1992, is a primary statement of purpose regarding how we can act to preserve and sustain our common genetic resources.
 to amend this unprecedented international agreement on behalf of the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, with their insistence on protection of their intellectual property and technology transfer rights.
 We encourage, and support public access to, seed banks and seed collections that emphasize traditional and heirloom seeds.
 We call for widespread education on the critical importance of efforts being made to replant indigenous plant life where it has dwindled or been lost.
 We oppose monopolistic production of high-tech hybrid seeds.
 This is the basis of monoculture where agribusiness relies on non-sustainable methods such as single crop varieties bred with industrial traits and grown with high input of energy, chemicals, and pesticides.
 This has led to a massive loss of biodiversity, displacing traditional varieties and seed stocks.
 We encourage the use of diverse natural seed varieties passed down over many generations.
 Crops can be grown with the best plants' seeds being saved season to season.
 We oppose international trade agreements (NAFTA, GATT and the WTO in particular) that have precedent-setting provisions protecting transnational, corporate control of the intellectual property of genetic material, hybrid seeds, and proprietary products.
 We support reintroducing native species to areas from which they have been eradicated, eliminating predator control on public lands, and reintroducing native predators where they would contribute to a viable ecosystem.
 We should educate ourselves about animal behaviors to overcome our culture's irrational fear of wildlife, and learn techniques of co-existence with other species.
 Since the efforts to clone animals  and eventually humanshas been undertaken by profit-making corporations, the purpose behind such projects is to manufacture commodities.
 To classify a human (or any part thereof, including human DNA and body organs) as a commodity is to turn human beings into property.
 Support an executable and enforceable international agreement that preserves existing biodiversity, and mitigates biodiversity loss during the ongoing 6th Mass Extinction, but also works to repair our fractured, shrinking biodiversity in order to ensure overall health of the biosphere using a framework similar to that of the Montreal Protocol (See Chapter III.
 Ethical Treatment Of Animals   Cruelty to animals is repugnant and criminal.
 The mark of a humane and civilized society lies in how we treat the least protected among us.
 To extend rights to other sentient, living beings is our responsibility and a mark of our place among all of creation.
 We call for an intelligent, compassionate approach to the treatment of animals.
 We reject the belief that our species is the center of creation, and that other life forms exist only for our use and enjoyment.
 Our species does not have the right to exploit and inflict violence on other creatures simply because we have the desire and power to do so.
 Our ethic upholds not only the value of biological diversity and the integrity and continuity of species, but also the value of individual lives and the interest of individual animals.
 The Green Party advocates humane treatment of animals with the following policies:   Redirect the funds that are disbursed annually by the National Institutes of Health away from animal experiments and more towards direct health care, preventive medicine, and biomedical research using non-animal procedures such as clinical, epidemiological, and cell culture research.
 Expand the Animal Welfare Act to include rats, mice, and birds.
 Phase out the use of animals for consumer product testing, tobacco and alcohol testing, psychological testing, classroom demonstrations and dissections, weapons development and other military programs.
 Mandate clear labeling of products to tell whether or not they have been tested on animals and if they contain any animal products or by-products.
 Establish procedures to develop greater public scrutiny of all animal research.
 These should include the welfare of laboratory animals, and a halt to wasteful public funding of unnecessary research such as duplicative experiments.
 End the abuse of animals, including farm animals, and strengthen our enforcement of existing laws.
 Ban the sale of exotic or endangered animals, as well as the use and sale of goods produced from them.
 Prohibit large scale commercial breeding facilities, such as "puppy mills," because of the massive suffering, overpopulation, and ill health such facilities produce.
 Subsidize spay and neuter clinics to combat the ever-worsening pet overpopulation problem that results in the killing of millions of animals every year.
 Where unwanted companion animals are being killed in shelters, we advocate mandatory spay and neuter laws.
 Ban the exploitation, abuse, and neglect of animals in entertainment and sports.
 Oppose captivity of cetaceans (whales, dolphins, porpoises) for entertainment and/or commercial profit.
 End the capture and exploitation of cetaceans for entertainment purposes in marine parks and aquariums and captive breeding programs to maintain entertainment stock.
 Support funding for the development of sanctuaries for cetaceans which may be transitional or permanent depending on the evaluation of the cetaceans involved.
 Encourage a plant-based diet to reduce methane gas emissions that contribute to climate change, reduce animal suffering, reduce animal waste runoff in waterways, reduce animal consumption of grain that could feed the impoverished, and for improved health, among other reasons.
 Prohibit the practice of tethering domesticated animals outdoors in extreme weather, as well as leaving domesticated animals outdoors during such weather without adequate shelter.
 Extreme weather includes but is not limited to below freezing temperatures, temperatures above 85 (30), hurricanes, thunderstorms, and tornados.
 Ban the sale, production, import, and export of foie gras and any other products that are the result of force feeding.
 Ban the sale, production, import and export of animal furs.
 Place an immediate ban on the practice of declawing, which is immensely harmful and traumatic surgery which involves the amputation of part of an animals limbs.
 Declawing can have health determinants including painful paws, infection, and tissue death as well as behavioral issues such as aggression and/or improper soiling.
 Legalize and fund the practice of trap and release (TNR) of feral, domesticated animals for the purpose of spay and neutering by programs run by licensed veterinarians at any public or private animal shelter, releasing agency, hospital, or clinic.
 Ban the practice of horse racing, greyhound racing, pig racing, and all other situations where animals are commercially raced.
 Place an immediate ban on the use of whips in horse racing and steeplechase.
 Ban the use of animals in circuses and call for their re-homing to their natural habitats where possible, otherwise to conservational zoos or sanctuaries.
 Require that all zoos and private collections of non-domesticated animals must be for the purposes of conservation and rehabilitation or providing sanctuary for those animals unable to be released back into their natural habitat.
 Guarantee that public buildings that serve food such as schools, jails and hospitals participate in the practice of "Green Monday"  where all foods served on one day of the week does not contain animal products and byproducts  to provide ethical, healthier, and climate friendly meals one day out of each week.
 Forestry Practices   From oxygen production to water conservation to carbon sinks to stratospheric ozone regulation to medicines and homes for all kinds of creatures, forests are indispensable to human and animal life and must be protected.
 Globally, the planet has already lost 50% of our pre-colonial forests and the plant and animal communities they supported.
 Our rapidly increasing numbers, high-consumption rates, and profit incentives have resulted in massive forest destruction due to logging and development, and the Earth's remaining rain forests are being destroyed and transformed into cattle pastures or mono-crops for bio-fuels production.
 and elsewhere in the last few decades is alarming.
 The causes are multiple: pests, diseases, climate change, acid rain, other forms of pollution, and increased UV radiation due to our thinned ozone layer.
 In our Eastern woodlands, for example, the normal pre-pollution background mortality rate would be 0.
 That translates to the death of one tree out of 100 living trees each year.
 Anything over a 2 or 3% mortality rate per year is considered a disaster.
 Yet, we are now witnessing local tree die-offs of 30 to 40% and even higher! The fact is that the pollution inherent to our industrial production and lifestyles has weakened the resistance of the interconnected ecosystems we call forests.
 Malnourished due to acid rain's destruction of their roots, and bombarded by unusually high UV radiation, our forests are falling victim to a host of diseases and pests.
 Forestry practices such as clearcutting also destroy the mycorrhizal fungi with which trees have a symbiotic relationship, and regeneration is slowed or impossible.
 The Green Party calls for actions to protect our forests:   Overhaul state and U.
 Forest Service rules to protect our forests and use them wisely.
 Review, reform and restructure all federal and state landuse policies so that our practices become environmentally sustainable, and so that forests provide a continuing supply of high quality wood products.
 Stop building logging roads in national forests at taxpayers' expense.
 These roads not only cost more than the revenue from timber sales that they expedite, but they also contribute to soil erosion and silting of streams, which ruin fish habitats.
 Ban the export of raw logs and other minimally processed forest products (pulp, chips, carts, slabs, etc.
 This will maximize employment opportunities through value-added processing, and promote sustainability and worker control.
 Use work projects, goats, and other sustainable methods to control undergrowth rather than spraying herbicides, especially near communities.
 Grow and use hemp as a plentiful and renewable resource for the manufacture of paper and other forest products.
 Protect significant archaeological, historical and cultural sites.
 Support the rights of people indigenous to the rainforest, and their ecologically sound use of the forest, such as rubber extraction, nut gathering, and collecting medicinal herbs.
 Forgive the debts of Third World countries that need help in halting the destruction of their rain forest lands.
 Develop labels that identify ecologically sound forest products.
 This would help consumers to support ecologically sound forestry.
 Protect wildlife habitats, fisheries, biodiversity, scenery, and recreation.
 We must accept responsibility for the affect local actions have on the global economy and ecology.
 Government offices use 100% post-consumer waste paper processed chlorine free, and that any new fiber necessary to the process come from alternative sources such as hemp or kenaf.
 Where recycled paper is inappropriate, such as for archival quality paper, high quality fiber such as hemp should be the primary source.
 Ban all clearcutting on publicly owned lands and in privately owned "old-growth" forests, and strictly regulate clearcutting in private sector commercial forestry.
 Ocean Protection   OUR POSITION   Our oceans, with their enormous diversity of life and function, are essential to life on Earth and must be preserved.
 Our oceans are threatened by climate change, pollution, whaling, over fishing, factory fishing, bottom trawling, by catch, pirate fishing and fish farming.
 Simple, strong policy changes can rejuvenate the health of our oceans and planet.
 GREEN SOLUTIONS   Protect 40% of the world's oceans as marine preserves, especially near shore coastal habitats.
 Determine protected zones through a democratic process involving all stakeholders.
 Ban the siting of liquefied natural gas facilities off the U.
 Phase out use of the once-through cooling process, currently used by power plants, in and near coastal waters.
 Require secondary treatment of waste effluent before release.
 Ban ocean transportation of nuclear and toxic waste.
 Support the ban on international commercial whaling as well as other international efforts to protect endangered marine species.
 Ban drift-net fishing and long-line fishing as these methods entangle whales and other sea life.
 Phase out factory trawling which decimates coral reefs and other oceanic ecosystems.
 Ban the importation of fish and fish products from countries that use drift-nets and other illegal means.
 Map undersea toxic dump sites, and investigate methods of rendering them harmless.
 Ban the importation of coral products and the destruction of breakwaters.
 Support the Law of the Sea Treaty that establishes the global sharing of ocean resources.
 Support complete cleanup of existing and past oil spills.
 Cost of cleanups and compensation for affected communities should be paid by the corporations responsible for the spills.
 Support an international agreement for the full cleanup of all plastic waste currently in our oceans, with a focus on heavily polluted international waters and environmentally sensitive ecosystems in areas like the Great Pacific Garbage Patch and the Great Barrier Reef.
 Require ropeless fishing gear when taking any species of fish for commercial or recreational purposes in any trap fishery, including, but not limited to: Dungeness crab, spiny lobster, and spot prawn.
 Ban the practice of fish farming as these methods require vast amounts of antibiotics, which if leached into nearby waterways pose a danger to the health and well-being of wildlife and humans.
 International Environmental Policy   GPUS believes that an international agreement should be reached which sets (1) an executable and enforceable framework for keeping Earth well within its 7 measurable planetary boundaries (currently including climate change, biosphere integrity, land-system change, freshwater use, biogeochemical flows, ocean acidification, and stratospheric ozone depletion) (2) an executable and enforceable framework for the designation of at least 50% of the planet as a nature reserve and (3) international protections, funding, and legal personhood to large swaths of wildlands like the Brazilian Amazon and Nile River, including rivers longer than 1,500 km and wildlands larger than 1,000,000 acres.
 GPUS supports the addition of the crime of ecocide to the Rome Statute which created and empowers the International Criminal Court.
 The definition drafted by a team of lawyers commissioned by the Stop Ecocide Foundation should be taken as a starting point, with refinements added to hold corporations and governments accountable for ecocide committed by their individual agents.
 GPUS calls on the US and the international community to adopt and enforce strong language on defining ecocide, and vigorous and comprehensive enforcement of that language.
 Rights of Nature    We support the adoption of local, state, and federal laws which recognize the legal rights of natural communities and ecosystems  including wetlands, streams, rivers, aquifers, and other water systems  to exist, flourish, regenerate, naturally evolve, and be restored.
 We support the inclusion in those laws of the ability of people and communities to file legal actions in the name of the affected natural community or ecosystem, and for courts to require restoration of the natural community or ecosystem back to its pre-damaged state.
 Greens recognize that human, animal, and plant life on this planet are not separate from nature.
 Functional harm to Nature from Endocrine Disrupting Chemicals [EDCs] must be reduced in the environment.
 Because EDCs have toxic effects on the ability of natural systems to heal and regenerate themselves, with subsequent negative impacts on biodiversity; these chemicals must be reduced and ultimately eliminated .
 The Rights of Natural Systems to be free from harm by EDCs is in the best interest of present and future generations of human, animal, plant and systemic biomes in all soil, wetlands, freshwater and saltwater environments necessary to sustain life.
 A responsible use policy for necessary EDC pharmaceuticals and chemotherapy waste as well as certain fire retardants should be implemented as well to protect the larger biosphere.
 climate change       Do you like this page? Tweet                         We support local production, local manufacturing, local sales, local recycling wherever and whenever possible.
 We encourage face-to-face relationships with local business owners and shopkeepers .
 Green economics is rooted in ecological economics.
 Our economy should reflect and respect the diverse, delicate ecosystems of our planet.
 It is unjust and unsustainable because it is premised on endless economic growth and destruction of nature.
 Our market economy, by externalizing the environmental and social costs of greenhouse gas emissions, is creating the greatest market failure in history: climate change, and its devastating effects.
 Our government's top economic goal  increasing Gross Domestic Product  impels us to perpetually intensify our resource use and environmental destruction.
 Green economic policy places value not just on material wealth, but on the things which truly make life worth living  our health, our relationships, our communities, our environment, and building peace and justice throughout our nation and the world.
 We aim to maximize our quality of life with a minimum of consumption.
 We propose a shift away from materialism to help people live more meaningful lives as we save the planet from climate change and ever-larger mountains of waste.
 We need to acquire the ability to distinguish between need and greed.
 We must also end the colossal waste of taxpayer funds for armaments and war, to reduce our nation's federal debt, and fund our environmental and social needs.
 Greens intend to provide a green job to anyone who wants one.
 We support using the tax system to bring more equality to our nation.
 Rising income inequality makes us all poorer in myriad ways.
 More equal societies are happier, healthier, safer and greener.
 Greens support strong local economies and regional trade.
 The best model of economic security is for a community and region to be largely self-sufficient in the production of its necessities.
 We support not the corporate control of "free trade"  which, through the machinations of the World Trade Organization places the enrichment of multinational corporations above the level of national laws  but "fair trade," which protects communities, labor, consumers and the environment.
 Local economic vibrancy and regional trade keep more money in the community and the region, rather than going to distant corporate headquarters.
 This is the most sensible model for economic security.
 Greens will change the legal design of the corporation so that it does not maximize profits at the expense of the environment, human rights, public health, workers, or the communities in which it operates.
 We believe the giant multinational corporation is the world's most potent force for environmental and social destruction.
 Unlike other political parties in the modern era, the Green Party views economics not as an end in itself but as a service to community development through the building and strengthening of community bonds that constitute the social fabric.
 Greens are defenders of the commonsthe vast trove of wealth owned by the people, the social and tangible assets we inherit from generations past.
 Most people living in this country yearn for a more vibrant and lively commons, such as a richer community life, more parks and protected wilderness, clean air and water, more silence, better access to information and knowledge, and a more nourishing culture.
 We must stop big business from undermining and stealing our common wealth, such as our public forests and minerals, the fruits of federal research, the public airwaves and the Internet.
 Ecological Economics   To create an enduring society we must devise a system of production and commerce where every act is sustainable and restorable.
 We believe that all business has a social contract with society and the environment in effect a fiduciary responsibility  and that the concepts of socially responsible business and shareholder democracy can be models for prospering, successful business.
 We call for an economic system that is based on a combination of private businesses, decentralized democratic cooperatives, publicly owned enterprises, and alternative economic structures.
 Collectively, this system puts human and ecological needs alongside profits to measure success, and maintains accountability to communities.
 Community-based economics constitutes an alternative to both corporate capitalism and state socialism.
 The drive to accumulate power and wealth is a pernicious characteristic of a civilization headed in a pathological direction.
 Greens advocate that economic relations become more direct, more cooperative, and more egalitarian.
 Humanizing economic relations is just one aspect of our broader objective: to shift toward a different way of life characterized by sustainability, regionalization, more harmonious balance between the natural ecosphere and the human-made technosphere, and revival of community life.
 Our perspective is antithetical to both Big Business and Big Government.
 True Cost Pricing ] We support production methods that eliminate waste.
 In natural systems, everything is a meal for something else.
 We need to mimic natural systems in the way we manufacture and produce things.
 Consumables need to be designed to be thrown into a compost heap and/or eaten.
 Durable goods would be designed in closed-loop systems, ultimately to be disassembled and reassembled.
 Toxics would be safeguarded, minimally produced, secured, and would ideally have markers identifying them in perpetuity with their makers.
 The Green Party opposes capitalism and seeks to build an alternative economic system based on social ecology, decentralization of power, and freedom from state control.
 We will build an eco-socialist economy based on large-scale green public works, municipalization, and workplace and community democracy.
 Worker and community empowerment will ensure that decisions that greatly affect our lives are made in the interests of our communities, not at the whim of capitalist CEOs and distant boards of directors.
 Democratically run enterprises embedded in and accountable to our communities will make more ecologically sound decisions and help end labor exploitation, environmental exploitation, and racial, gender, and wealth inequality and bring about economic and social justice.
 Greens view the economy as a part of the ecosystem, not as an isolated subset in which nothing but resources come in and products and waste go out.
 There is a fundamental conflict between economic growth and environmental protection.
 There is an absolute limit to economic growth based on laws of thermodynamics and principles of ecology.
 Long before that limit is reached, an optimum size of the economy is reached which maximizes human welfare in an holistic sense.
 We support a Superfund for Workers program as envisioned by the Oil, Chemical and Atomic Workers Union in 1991.
 Such a program would guarantee full income and benefits for all workers displaced by ecological conversion until they find new jobs with comparable income and benefits.
 The Green Party supports methods, such as the Index of Social Health Indicators, the Index of Sustainable Economic Welfare, and the Genuine Progress Indicator, that take into account statistics on housing, income, and nutrition.
 Measuring Economic Health   Economic growth has been a primary goal of U.
 Corporations, politicians beholden to corporations, and economists funded by corporations advocate a theory of unlimited economic growth stemming from technological progress.
 Based upon established principles of the physical and biological sciences, however, there is a limit to economic growth.
 This policy of securing economic growth is having negative effects on the long-term ecological and economic welfare of the United States and the world.
 There is a fundamental conflict between economic growth and ecological health (for example, biodiversity conservation, clean air and water, atmospheric stability).
 We cannot rely on technological progress to solve ecological and long-term economic problems.
 Rather, we should endeavor to make lifestyle choices that reinforce a general equilibrium of humans with nature.
 This requires consciously choosing to foster environmentally sound technologies, whether they are newer or older technologies, rather than technologies conducive to conspicuous consumption and waste.
 Economic growth, as gauged by increasing Gross Domestic Product (GDP), is a dangerous and anachronistic goal.
 The most viable and sustainable alternative is a steady-state economy.
 A steady-state economy has a stable or mildly fluctuating product of population and per capita consumption, and is generally indicated by stable or mildly fluctuating GDP.
 The steady-state economy has become a more appropriate goal than economic growth in the United States and other large, wealthy economies.
 A steady-state economy precludes ever-expanding production and consumption of goods and services.
 However, a steady-state economy does not preclude economic developmenta qualitative process not gauged by GDP growth and other measures that overlook ecological effects.
 One way to measure the economy is to assess the value of non-monetary goods and services and measure the rate of infant mortality, life expectancy of people, educational opportunities offered by the state, family stability, environmental data, and health care for all people.
 Another measure is to quantify human benefit (in terms of education, health care, elder care, etc.
 Measuring the gap between the most fortunate and the least fortunate in our society, for example, tells us how well or poorly we are doing in creating an economy that does not benefit some at the expense of others.
 For many nations with widespread poverty, increasing per capita consumption (through economic growth or through more equitable distributions of wealth) remains an appropriate goal.
 Ultimately, however, the global ecosystem will not be able to support further economic growth.
 Therefore, an equitable distribution of wealth among nations is required to maintain a global steady-state economy.
 A global economy with inequitable wealth distribution will be subject to continual international strife and conflict.
 Such strife and conflict, in turn, ensures the economic unsustainability of some nations and threatens the economic sustainability of all.
 Curbing Corporate Power   OUR POSITION Greens want to reduce the economic and political power of large corporations, end corporate personhood and re-design corporations to serve our society, democracy and the environment.
 Unelected and unaccountable corporate executives are not merely exercising power in our society  they are ruling us.
 Greens will reduce corporate powers and privileges, including by stripping them of artificial "personhood" and constitutional protections.
 The Green Party supports strong and effectively enforced antitrust laws and regulation to counteract the concentration of economic and political power that imposes a severe toll on people, places and the planet.
 Greens believe the legal structure of the corporation is obsolete.
 At present, corporations are designed solely to generate profit.
 This legal imperative  profit above all else  is damaging our country and our planet in countless ways.
 We must change the legal design of corporations so that they generate profits, but not at the expense of the environment, human rights, public health, workers, or the communities in which the corporation operates.
 One point remains unequivocal: our planet cannot afford business as usual any longer.
 Because corporations have become the dominant economic institution of the planet, we must compel them to serve human and environmental needs, so that our peoples, nations and environment may live long and prosper.
 A key first step will be federal and state constitutional amendments abolishing the legal fiction of corporate personhood.
 Federal chartering of corporations that includes comprehensive, strict and enforceable social responsibility requirements.
 Strengthen the civil justice system to ensure that it holds corporations strictly liable for corporate crime, fraud, violence and malfeasance.
 This would include revoking the charters of corporations that routinely violate safety, health, environmental protection or other laws.
 Empower shareholders to stop abuses by the managers they hire through a structure of democratic governance and elections.
 Enforce existing antitrust laws and support even tougher new ones to curtail the overwhelming economic and political power of large corporations.
 Increase funding for and strengthen oversight of federal antitrust enforcement.
 Livable Income   We affirm the importance of access to a livable income.
 We call for a universal basic income (sometimes called a guaranteed income, negative income tax, citizen's income, or citizen dividend).
 This would go to every adult regardless of health, employment, or marital status, in order to minimize government bureaucracy and intrusiveness into people's lives.
 The amount should be sufficient so that anyone who is unemployed can afford basic food and shelter.
 State or local governments should supplement that amount from local revenues where the cost of living is high.
 Job banks and other innovative training and employment programs which bring together the private and public sectors must become federal, state and local priorities.
 People who are unable to find decent work in the private sector should have options through publicly funded opportunities.
 Workforce development programs must aim at moving people out of poverty.
 The growing inequities in income and wealth between rich and poor; unprecedented discrepancies in salary and benefits between corporate top executives and line workers; loss of the "American dream" by the young and middle-classeach is a symptom of decisions made by policy-makers far removed from the concerns of ordinary workers trying to keep up.
 A clear living wage standard should serve as a foundation for trade between nations, and a "floor" of guaranteed wage protections and workers' rights should be negotiated in future trade agreements.
 The United States should take the lead on this front  and not allow destructive, predatory corporate practices under the guise of "free" international trade.
 Fair Taxation   OUR POSITION Federal and state taxes must be strongly progressive.
 It is riddled with loopholes, subsidies and dodges for corporations and the super-rich.
 Most working people pay too much in taxes compared to corporations, multi-millionaires and billionaires.
 Many of our biggest and most profitable corporations pay little or no tax.
 Much investment income is taxed at less than the rate workers pay.
 We can afford to cut taxes for most people if we make corporations and the super-rich pay their fair share.
 Then we can cut them even more when we halt our nation's wasteful spending on wars, weaponry and militarism.
 We call for progressive taxation, shifting tax from individuals to corporations, taxing "bads" not "goods," taxing unearned income at the same rate as earned income, taxing speculation on Wall Street, and cutting corporate tax giveaways.
 We will institute comprehensive tax reform to simplify the tax system.
 We will eliminate loopholes and other exemptions that favor corporate and wealthy interests over tax justice.
 Small business, in particular, should not be penalized by a tax system which benefits those who can "work" the legislative tax committees for breaks and subsidies.
 We support substantive and wide-ranging re- form of the tax system that helps create jobs, economic efficiencies and innovation within the small business community.
 Greens believe government should have a tax policy which encourages small and socially responsible business.
 Political democracy remains a distant promise without economic democracy.
 A principal instrument for achieving economic democracy is our tax system.
 Taxes are the means whereby we fund our public services.
 They can also help create equity, justice, health and sustainability.
 GREEN SOLUTIONS Cut taxes for wage workers   Exempt people earning less than $25,000 per year and families earning less than $50,000 per year (adjusted for inflation) from the federal and state income taxes.
 Exempt food, clothing, prescription medications, other necessities and second-hand goods from sales taxes.
 Fair taxes for corporations and the wealthy   End corporate welfare, such as the bailouts for Wall Street, the big banks and the automobile industry; subsidies for agribusiness, Export-Import Bank loan guarantees; tax abatements for big box stores; the tax loophole for "carried interest" from private equity and hedge fund managers; tax deductibility for advertising and business entertainment; offshore tax avoidance schemes; giveaways for new sports stadiums and casinos.
 Impose a financial transaction tax on trades of stocks, bonds, currency, derivatives, and other financial instruments.
 Block financial transactions with tax havens, to stop tax evasion.
 Decrease the $1 million home value cap on the mortgage interest tax deduction for federal income taxes, to reduce the tax subsidy provided to those living in the most expensive homes.
 Apply the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (Social Security and Medicare) taxes to investment income and to all levels of income, not merely the first $106,800 earned.
5% per year on an individual's assets over $5 million.
 Eco-taxes to help save the planet    Establish a system of carbon taxes on all fossil fuels, to begin to reflect the real environmental cost of their extraction and use.
 Carbon taxes should be applied as far upstream as possible, preferably when possession of the carbon-bearing fuel passes from extraction (for ex- ample, coal mine; oil wellhead or tanker; gas wellhead) to the next entity in the supply chain (for example, coal shipper or utility; oil refiner or importer; natural gas pipeline).
 Offset potential regressivity for lower income individuals via the Green Tax shift that lowers income taxes and/or other approaches.
 Eliminate tax subsidies for the oil, gas, coal, nuclear and timber and mining industries.
 Enact a Green Tax Shift that shifts from taxing people and work (via income and payroll taxes) to taxing natural resource extraction, use, waste and pollution.
 Enact a system of Community Ground Rent/Land Value Taxation that distinguishes between the socially and privately created wealth of land, by increasing the taxes on the former to retain for society the value that it collectively creates and lowers them on the latter to reward individuals for their initiative and work.
 To ensure that prices reflect their true environmental cost, enact a system of True Cost Pricing (TCP) for goods and services.
 TCP is an accounting and pricing system that includes all costs in the price of a product.
 TCP charges extractive and productive industries for the immediate or prolonged damage (pollution of air and water) and diminishment of natural resources caused by their acts.
 Impose a carbon fee on goods imported from nations with lower carbon taxes than in the U.
, based upon the carbon spent in manufacturing and transporting them to the U.
 Make it transparent, understand- able and resistant to the machinations of powerful corporate and wealthy interests.
 Raise taxes on tobacco, alcohol, soda pop and other junk food.
 Local Economic Development   OUR POSITION Greens support reforms that give communities more control over their own local economies.
 Greens support decentralization, and call for a community-based economics whose aim is local prosperity and self-sufficiency.
 We support local production, local manufacturing, local sales, local recycling wherever and whenever possible.
 We encourage face-to-face relationships with local business owners and shopkeepers.
 Successful local Green communities nurture everyone of all ages, generate good jobs and housing, and provide public services; creating cities and towns that educate everyone, encourage recreation, and preserve natural and cultural resources; building local governments that protect people from environmental hazards and crime; and motivating citizens to participate in making decisions.
 GREEN SOLUTIONS   Protect local businesses from the predatory pricing practices of chain and "big box" stores.
 Support incentives for co-operative enterprises, such as consumer co-ops, workers' co-operatives, credit unions and other institutions that help communities develop economic projects.
 Allow municipalities to approve or disapprove large economic projects case-by-case based on environmental impacts, local ownership, community reinvestment, wage levels, and working conditions.
 Allow communities to set environmental, consumer, human rights, labor, health and safety standards higher than federal or state minimums.
 Invest in the commons: rebuild infrastructure; improve mass transit; protect and restore the environment.
 Establish local currencies such as Time Dollars, Ithaca Hours and BerkShares, to strengthen local economies.
 Enact corporate "good character" laws, requiring corporations, when applying for a permit, to disclose all violations of law they have committed.
 Empower officials to deny permits based on such information.
 Small Business and the Self-Employed   Greens support a program that counteracts concentration and abuse of economic power.
 We support many different initiatives for forming successful, small enterprises that together can become an engine of (and sustainable model for) job creation, prosperity and progress.
 Small businesses are where the jobs are being created.
 Over the past decade and a half, all new net job growth has come from the small business sector.
 The Green economic model is about true prosperityGreen means prosperity.
 Our goal is to go beyond the dedicated good work being done by many companies (referred to as "socially responsible business") and to present new ways of seeing how business can help create a sustainable world, while surviving in a competitive business climate.
 We believe that conservation should be profitable, and employment should be creative, meaningful and fairly compensated.
 Access to capital is often an essential need in growing a business.
 Banking and Insurance Reform in this chapter ] The present tax system acts to discourage small business as it encourages waste, discourages conservation, and rewards consumption.
 Big business has used insider access to dominate the federal tax code.
 The tax system needs a major overhaul to favor the legitimate and critical needs of the small business community.
 Retention of capital through retained earnings, efficiencies, and savings is central to small business competitiveness.
 Current tax policies often act to unfairly penalize small business.
 Government should reduce unnecessary restrictions, fees, and bureaucracy.
 In particular, the Paper Simplification Act should be seen as a way to benefit small business, and it should be improved in response to the needs of small businesses and the self-employed.
 Health insurance premiums paid by the self-employed should be fully deductible.
 State and local government should encourage businesses that benefit the community especially.
 Economic development initiatives should include citizen and community input.
 The type and size of businesses that are given incentives (tax, loans, bonds, etc.
) should be the result of local community participation.
 Pension funds (the result of workers' investments) should be examined as additional sources of capital for small business.
 Pension Reform in this chapter ]   Insurance costs should be brought down by means of active engagement with the insurance industry.
 One-stop offices should be established by government to assist individuals who want to change careers or go into business for the first time.
 Home-based and neighborhood-based businesses should be assisted by forward-looking planning, not hurt by out-of-date zoning ordinances.
 Telecommuting and home offices should be aided, not hindered, by government.
 Work and Job Creation   There is plenty of work to do that does not jeopardize our future, does not widen the gap between the richest and the poorest in our society, and that can enrich our communities.
 We must encourage the creation of these opportunities.
 People whose livelihoods depend on supporting remote, multi-national corporations cannot be expected to support changing the system.
 The Green Party proposes a third alternative to a job or no job dichotomy: that is to provide everyone a sustainable livelihood.
 The need of our times is for security, not necessarily jobs.
 We need security in the knowledge that, while markets may fluctuate and jobs may come and go, we are still able to lead a life rooted in dignity and well-being.
 The concept of a "job" is only a few hundred years old; and the artificial dichotomy between "employment" and "unemployment" has become a tool of social leverage for corporate exploiters.
 This produces a dysfunctional society in various ways: (1) It is used to justify bringing harmful industries to rural communities, such as extensive prison construction and clear cutting of pristine forests.
 (2) It has been used to pit workers (people needing jobs) against the interests of their own communities.
 (3) It has created a self-esteem crisis in a large segment of the adult population who have been forced into doing work that is irrelevant, socially harmful, or environmentally unsound.
 We will also promote policies that have job-increasing effects.
 Many people will still need jobs for their security.
 We need to counterbalance the decline in jobs caused either by new technology, corporate flight to cheaper labor markets outside our borders, or the disappearance of socially wasteful jobs that will inevitably occur as more and more people embrace a green culture.
 To begin a transition to a system providing sustainable livelihood, we support:     Creating alternative, low-consumption communities and living arrangements, including a reinvigorated sustainable homesteading movement in rural areas and voluntary shared housing in urban areas.
 Universal health care requiring coverage for all.
 Health Care in chapter II ]   The creating and spreading local currencies and barter systems.
 Subsidizing technological development of consumer items that would contribute toward economic autonomy, such as renewable energy devices.
 Establishing local non-profit development corporations.
 Providing people with information about alternatives to jobs.
 Creating jobs For creating jobs we propose:   Reducing taxes on labor.
 This will make labor more competitive with energy and capital investment.
 ( See Taxation above )   Solidarity with unions and workers fighting the practice of contracting out tasks to part-time workers in order to avoid paying benefits and to break up unions.
 Adopting a reduced-hour (30-35 hours) work week as a standard.
 This could translate into as many as 26 million new jobs.
 Subsidizing renewable energy sources, which directly employ 2 to 5 times as many people for every unit of electricity generated as fossil or nuclear sources yet are cost competitive.
 Also, retrofit existing buildings for energy conservation and build non-polluting, low impact transportation systems.
 Supporting small business by reducing tax, fee and bureaucratic burdens.
 The majority of new jobs today are created by small businesses.
 This would cut their failure rate and help them create more jobs.
 Opposing the trend toward "bundling" of contracts that minimizes opportunity for small, minority-owned, and women-owned businesses.
 Reducing consumption to minimize outsourcing  the exportation of jobs to other countriesthus reducing the relative price of using U.
 Banking and Insurance Reform   OUR POSITION Greens will overhaul the financial industries to end their culture of impunity and to prevent them from committing fraud or malfeasance so severe as to drive our nation into a massive recession or depression.
 Since finance, banking, and insurance institutions occupy a privileged position of power at the center of commerce, this special advantage brings with it special social responsibilities.
 We must ensure that the institutions chartered for these roles take that responsibility seriously and serve the public interest.
 Greens aim to reform the financial industries to eliminate usury (exorbitantly high interest rates on loans) and ensure that they meet their obligations to taxpayers and local communities.
 GREEN SOLUTIONS Banking reform         Break up our nation's largest banks and financial institutions so that none is "too big to fail.
" End taxpayer- funded bailouts for banks, insurers and other financial companies.
 Regulate all financial derivatives, ban any predatory or gambling use of derivatives, and require full transparency for all derivative trades, to control risk of systemic financial collapse.
 Require regulatory pre-approval of exotic financial instruments.
 Re-enact the Glass-Steagall Act, which prohibited bank holding companies from owning other financial companies and engaging in risky economic transactions.
 Oppose the federal government being the final guarantor of speculative investments.
 During a financial crisis, if the federal government and/or a central bank must provide relief, it should be given in an equal manner and at the most local level possible, so that benefits are equitably dispersed and burdens are equitably borne.
 So rather than pouring trillions of dollars into the banking system, they should have provided direct mortgage relief to homeowners suffering the most from the housing bubble and negotiated with lenders to provide partial loan forgiveness.
 Ensure that low- and middle-income people have access to banking services, affordable loans, and small-business supporting capital, especially through credit unions.
 Oppose disinvestment practices, in which lending and financial institutions move money deposited in local communities out of those same communities, damaging the best interests of their customers and community.
 Support the extension of the Community Reinvestment Act to provide public and timely information on the extent of housing loans, small business loans to minority-owned enterprises, investments in community development projects, and affordable housing.
 Strengthen disclosure laws, anti-redlining laws, and openness on the part of lenders regarding what criteria they use in making lending decisions.
 Oppose arbitrary or discriminatory practices that deny individuals or small business access to credit.
 Support development of charter community development banks, which would be capitalized with public funds and work to meet the credit needs of local communities.
 Support the expansion of co-operative credit unions.
 Prosecute all financial fraud committed by criminal bankers.
 The Green Party calls for the aggressive investigation and prosecution of both individuals and corporate entities that engage in these criminal acts.
 Present laws shield corporate officers and employees from prosecution.
 Existing fines resulting from convictions against corporate entities do not provide an adequate deterrent to their abuse of power.
 Penalties for crimes against ordinary consumers should include prison terms for executives and employees, as well as fines, revocations of charters and confiscation of corporate and individual assets.
 Home ownership represents the primary method by which many individuals accumulate wealth.
 If lending institutions are found to have engaged in fraudulent lending or foreclosure practices, then judicial remedies should include fines and imprisonment, as well as equitable remedies in the form of damages, refinancing, and debt forgiveness for homeowners.
 Laws should be strengthened to protect consumers against foreclosure on their homes by banks and other lending agencies.
 Strict laws should be enacted that provide swift criminal prosecution of any lending agency, including executives, employees, lawyers and other firms that assist them in fraudulent practices and fraudulent foreclosures.
 Laws should also be enacted to provide individual homeowners with legal assistance through publicly-funded agencies when faced with any potential financial fraud, including foreclosure.
 Access to primary, secondary, post-secondary and vocational education should be a right of all, not a privilege of the wealthy, and certainly not an opportunity for predatory lenders.
 It's time to forgive all student and parent loans taken out to finance post-secondary and vocational education.
 The estimated $40 billion is a fraction of the bailout distributed among the predatory lenders who created the student debt crisis and would make a material difference for households across the country.
 Public Banking - We support Public Banking consistent with the 'Greening the Dollar' plank - that is, that the power to create money no longer resides with banks, private or public.
 We support the expansion of state and municipal public banking based on the model of the Bank of North Dakota, which does not create money when it lends, but lends only funds already deposited with the bank.
 Insurance reform   Clean up the insurance industry.
 Eliminate special-interest protections, collusion, over-pricing and industry-wide practices that too often injure the interests of the insured when they are most vulnerable.
 Prohibit bad-faith insurance practices, such as avoidance of obligations and price fixing.
 Until single-payer is established, we support laws that act to make insurance policies transportable from job to job.
 Support and encourage the insurance industry's efforts for "loss prevention," that is, to reduce the incidence of death, injuries, disease and other calamities.
 Support initiatives in secondary insurance markets that expand credit for economic development in inner cities, affordable housing and home ownership among the poor, sustainable agriculture and rural development maintaining family farms.
 Prohibit companies from being the beneficiary of insurance on their own employees.
 Broader financial industry reforms   Support a 10% cap on interest rates, above inflation, for credit cards, mortgages, payday loans and all other consumer lending.
 Aggressively crack down on crime, fraud, malfeasance and tax evasion in the financial and insurance industries.
 Support the formation of Citizens' Utility Boards to defend the interests of consumers and policyholders.
 Favor a tax on stock, bond, foreign currency and derivatives transactions to discourage excessive speculation.
 Pension Reform   Working peoplewho own over $3 trillion in pension monies (deferred wages in effect)should have financial options in where their money is invested apart from the current near-monopoly exerted by a handful of managers, banks, insurance companies, and mutual funds.
 Pension funds should not be used for corporate mergers, acquisitions and leveraged buyouts, corporate decisions that undercut workers rights, employment, and retirement while generously rewarding non-productive speculation.
 The current system has allowed vast amounts of workers' hard-earned money to be squandered on job-ending, plant-moving, corporate downsizing.
 Pension funds are gigantic capital pools that can, with government support, be used to meet community needs and benefit workers and their families directly.
 Corporate-sponsored pension funds (the biggest category of funds) should be jointly controlled by management and workers, not exclusively by management.
 Federal law must be changed so that pension funds need simply to seek a reasonable rate of return, not the prevailing market rate which greatly restricts where investments can be made.
 A secondary pension market established by the government to insure pension investments made in socially beneficial programs must be considered as one method that could greatly expand the impact of this capital market, as demonstrated in the case of federally insured/ subsidized mortgage lending.
 Prudent pension fund investing should both make money and do good work.
 Creating jobs and supporting employment programs in public/ private partnerships can become a priority as we seek to expand towards opportunities where new jobs are created small business, not transnational business.
 We believe there are myriad opportunities for a profound shift in how the savings of our workers are best put to use.
 Anti-Trust Enforcement   The Green Party supports strong and effectively enforced anti-trust regulation to counteract the concentration of economic power that imposes a severe toll on the economy.
 The anti-trust division of the Justice Department has had its scope and powers reduced.
 An explosion of unregulated mergers and acquisitions, spinoffs, and leveraged buy-outs has overwhelmed the federal government's capacity to provide effective oversight.
 Financial and trading markets have become particularly vulnerable to insider trading.
 Securities and Exchange Commission regulation of these markets has seriously fallen short.
 Overall, what we see in unchecked market power is self-serving abuse of the democratic political process, price gouging, loss of productivity and jobs, reduced competitiveness, and of predatory and monopolistic practices.
 The Federal Trade Commission must vigorously oversee mergers where the combined sales of the companies exceeds $1 billion.
 The Justice Department must redefine"relevant market share" in assessing mergers.
 The Congress must enact its calls for competitiveness by stopping illegal monopolistic practices.
 We oppose the largesse of government in the form of massive corporate entitlements.
 Advanced Technology and Defense Conversion   The Green Party supports defense technology transfer towards a peacetime technology-based economy, particularly new industrial applications and developments in the areas of advanced communications, alternative energy, non-toxic battery technology and waste management.
 Consolidation of the nuclear weapons complex should move toward alternative civilian technologies and non-proliferation work, not toward a new generation of nuclear weapon design and production.
 We recognize the need for de-escalating the continuing arms race, and we strongly oppose putting nuclear weapons, lasers and other weapons in space in a new militarization policy that is in clear violation of international law.
 Demilitarization and Exploration of Space in chapter I ]   Let us go forward with government and civilian space programs; research initiatives in sustainability science, environmental protection, ecological economics and transportation, appropriate technologies and technology transfer; environmental sampling and monitoring; systems testing; laser communications; and high speed computers.
 Let us devote a larger percentage of our nation's research and development budget, both private and public, toward civilian use and away from military use.
 Let us address our chronic trade imbalance in this fashionnot by increasing exports of military weapons and technologies.
 The Green Party opposes patenting or copyrighting life forms, algorithms, DNA, colors or commonly used words and phrases.
 We support broad interpretation and ultimate expansion of the Fair Use of copyrighted works.
 We support open source and copyleft models in order to promote the public interest and the spirit of copyright.
 We call for a federal Technology Assessment Office to examine how technology fits with life on Earth, with our neighborhoods, and with the quality of our daily lives.
 Telecommunications Advanced telecommunications technologies (many of which came originally from defense applications), such as fiber optics, broadband infrastructure, the Internet, and the World Wide Web hold great promise for education, decentralized economies, and local control of decision- making.
 We believe we must move toward decentralization in these efforts, carefully protecting our individual rights as we go forward.
 Advanced and high definition TV, digital communications, and wireless communications hold promise and challenge.
 For example, the public airwaves that will accommodate the new generation of telecommunications technology should not be free giveaways to media giants.
 An auction and built-in requirements that attach licenses to act in the public interest is needed.
 Technology provides tools: we must use these tools appropriately and ethically.
 Free Speech and Media Reform in chapter II ]   Broadband Internet access should be open to bidding, not simply the current choice between cable or telephone company monopolies, where grassroots Internet service providers must merge or go out of business.
 Broad- band access should be a taxpayer-funded utility, like water and sewer, ending the "digital divide" that keeps low-income folks from access to the Internet.
 The Internet is a commons, developed with public funds, and must insure freedom and equality of access.
 The Green Party opposes Internet access tiered service controlled by an Internet service provider (ISP), with independent (not housed with the ISP) most costly and inaccessible.
 ISPs and advertisers should not be gate- keepers.
 The Green Party calls for increased protection for user privacy and for accountability on the part of ISPs.
 Open-Source Software Open-source software is necessary to achieve personal, cultural, and organizational security in the face of technological threats brought by corporations and individual criminals.
 Government has a vital role in breaking up software monopolies, not so much by filing antitrust suits, but by buying nothing but open systems.
 Government and the larger states are buyers large enough to influence the computer and software systems through their purchasing.
 It should be illegal for a government agency to create and store information vital to its operations in a format it doesn't control.
 Governments should always consider storing information with open-source software and in-house staff instead of only commercial systems, vendors and software.
 One way to achieve this would be to add a virtual bid for in-house open source deployment whenever a software purchase goes out for bid.
 The Green Party supports protection of software (free or proprietary) by means of the copyright.
 Mathematical algorithms are discovered, not invented, by humans; therefore, they are not patentable.
 The overwhelming majority of software patents cover algorithms, and should never have been awarded, or they cover message formats of some kind, which are essentially arbitrary.
 Format patents only exist to restrain competition, and the harm falls disproportionately on programmers who work independently or for the smallest employers.
 Nanotechnology Nanotechnologythe science of manipulating matter at the molecular levelis poised to provide a new industrial revolution with vast social and environmental consequences.
 Like nuclear science and biotechnology, nanotechnology is being pursued largely outside of public debate, risking great harm and abuse in its use and application.
 The Green Party calls for a halt to nanotechnology development until the following conditions are met:   Development of full and open public debate about the implications of nanotechnology and the fusion of nanotech with biological, materials and information sciences.
 Development of democratic public control mechanisms to regulate the direction of nanotechnology research and development.
 Expanded research into the environmental and health consequences of exposure to nano-scale materials.
 Development of technology to contain and monitor nano-scale materials.
 Development of precautionary safety measures for the containment and control over nano-scale materials.
 M: National Debt   Fairness for our children and grandchildren   OUR POSITION Greens will reduce our national debt.
 Our nation is in debt because our privatized Federal Reserve monetary system only creates and issues money as debt through loans.
 The government must constantly borrow more money due to the shortfall in tax revenue, thus steadily increasing the national debt.
 Our national debt has grown by trillions of dollars to finance tax cuts for Americas wealthiest citizens, war, corporate welfare and bailouts of Wall Street and the automotive industry.
 The burden of the increasing annual interest payments on the debt falls disproportionately on working people and the small business community.
 GREEN SOLUTIONS   Reduce our national debt by increasing taxes on large corporations and polluters, eliminating loopholes for the super-rich and decreasing expenditures in some areas, especially for war, armaments and corporate welfare.
 Pay off the national debt as it comes due when Greening the Dollar is implemented.
 Monetary Reform (Greening the Dollar)   A Green Public Money Future   The crisis in our financial system makes it imperative that we restructure our monetary system.
 The present system of privatized money issuance and control has resulted in the misdirection of our financial resources to speculation, toxic financial instruments, and loans that create huge profits and wealth for the corporate few, but inadequate income and jobs for the common people.
 It is both possible and necessary for Congress to take back its exclusive Constitutional power to create our money (Article1 Section 8) without the creation of debt, and assume the responsibility to spend this money directly into circulation to fund public benefits outlined in the Federal Budget.
 Only with a Public Money System can the government direct our national wealth to the needs of the people through their local and state governments.
 A Public Money System will enable millions of good livelihoods, provide sufficient incomes, shrink the debt burden and begin to close the wealth gap.
 Public money has not been issued since Greenbacks, introduced by President Lincoln in 1862, and circulating as public money until 1971.
 To reverse the private control of issuing our nations money; to reverse the immoral and undeserved concentration of national wealth and income resulting from that private control; to place control over money within a more equitable public system of governmental checks and balances; and to end the regular recurrence of severe and disruptive financial crises that mark the Booms and Busts cycles of capitalism  the Green Party proposes the following three Public Money solutions to be enacted together:    Nationalize the 12 Federal Reserve Banks and transfer administrative functions of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors to a Bureau of the U.
 All money created under the nationalized Federal Reserve System will be treated as publicly issued money.
 The private creation of money will cease and with it the reckless practices that have led to recurring economic crises.
 All new money will be issued as a debt-free, permanently circulating asset by the federal government.
 A new Public Monetary Authority will be established under the Department of Treasury to scientifically determine the amount of money that can be safely created for the national economy to avoid inflation or deflation.
 The Monetary Authority will be empowered with full autonomy and independence to avoid political influence.
 Although banks will continue as financial intermediaries, lending publicly-issued money at interest, and performing traditional banking functions they will no longer be allowed to create money, ending what is known as fractional reserve banking.
 Specific guidance for a progressive publicly-controlled Monetary Authority can be found in a bill already entered into the U.
 2990 112th Congress: National Emergency Employment Defense Act of 2011 (NEED Act).
 All new money will be spent into circulation by the U.
 Government as authorized by Congress for public purpose.
 This includes funding a 21st century infrastructure including education and health care.
 Per capita spending guidelines for new money will assure a fair distribution across the nation, creating good livelihoods, re-invigorating local economies and funding government at all levels.
 Newly-created money will also be distributed directly to state and local governments.
 Do you like this page? Tweet                         People have a right to a home and to be secure in their tenancy.
 However the supply of affordable housing is not meeting the need, while in an era of increasing deregulation, many tenants are losing important legal protections.
 Historically, America led the world in establishing a society with democratic values such as equal opportunity and protection from discrimination.
 Today, however, our country is among the most extreme examples of industrialized nations that have a widening gap between the wealthy and the rest of its citizenry  the working poor, the struggling middle class, and those who increasingly cannot make ends meet.
 Our public schools, from kindergarten through college, are forced to cut back countless programs and services.
 Fees for community colleges are up sharply, and many public universities must turn away qualified students.
 More than 50 million Americans have no medical insurance coverage.
 The crisis in publicly subsidized housing is intensifying, while publicly funded "corporate welfare" continues unabated.
 Our criminal justice system assigns long prison terms to hundreds of thousands of perpetrators of victimless crimes, such as selling marijuana.
 Our civil liberties of privacy and free speech are impaired by the excesses of the USA PATRIOT Act and kindred new laws that use a national tragedy (the attacks on September 11, 2001) as an excuse to impose ubiquitous surveillance and control over citizens.
 In addition, discrimination based on gender, ethnicity, or race continues to sap the potential of our society and to violate personal dignity.
 Feelings of isolation and helplessness are common in America today.
 Children are increasingly shaped by an "electronic childhood" with little direct experience of nature and free play.
 Our families are scattered, our popular culture is crassly manipulated by the profit motives of increasingly concentrated media conglomerates, and our sense of community is a pale shadow of what earlier generations of Americans knew.
 The Green Party strongly believes that quality of life is determined not only by material aspects that can be measured and counted, but also by elements that cannot be quantified.
 We firmly support the separation of church and state, but we also acknowledge the spiritual dimension of life, and we honor the cultivation of various types of spiritual experience in our diverse society.
 We believe that artistic expression and a thriving structure of art institutions are key to community well-being.
 We believe that a deep and broad embrace of nonviolence is the only effective way to stop cycles of violence, from the home to the streets to the international level.
 We advocate a diverse system of education that would introduce children early to the wonders of the Great School (Nature), and would cultivate the wisdom of eco-education, eco-economics, eco-politics, and eco-culture.
 We seek to protect our children from the corrosive effects of mass culture that trains them to regard themselves first and foremost as consumers.
 We support the shift in modern medicine to include healing through complementary therapies and engagement with the Great Hospital (Nature).
 We seek, in short, to facilitate the healthy unfolding of the person within the unfolding story of the family, community, bioregion, state, nation, and Earth community.
 Civil Rights and Equal Rights   The foundation of any democratic society is the guarantee that each member of society has equal rights.
 Respect for our constitutionally protected rights is our best defense against discrimination and the abuse of power.
 Also, we recognize an intimate connection between our rights as individuals and our responsibilities to our neighbors and the planet.
 The Green Party shall strive to secure universal and effective recognition and observance of the principles and spirit expressed in the United National Universal Declaration of Human Rights as an international standard that all nations must meet.
 We are committed to establishing relationships that honor diversity; that support the self-definition and self-determination of all people; that consciously confront the barriers of racism, sexism, homophobia, biphobia, transphobia, class oppression, ageism, and ableism, and the many ways that our culture and laws separate us from working together.
 We support affirmative action to remedy discrimination, to protect constitutional rights, and to provide equal opportunity under the law.
 Women's Rights   Since the beginning of what we call civilization, when mens dominance over women was firmly established, until the present day, our history has been marred with oppression of and brutality to women.
 The Green Party deplores this system of male domination, known as patriarchy, in all its forms, both subtle and overt  from oppression, inequality, and discrimination to all forms of violence against women and girls including rape, trafficking, forced sex which is also rape, slavery, prostitution and violence against women within marriage and relationships and in all institutions.
 The change the world is crying for cannot occur unless womens voices are heard.
 Democracy cannot work without equality for women, which provides equal participation and representation.
 It took an extraordinary and ongoing fight of over 72 years for women to win the right to vote.
 However, the Equal Rights Amendment, first introduced in 1923, has still not been ratified as of today, representing a continuous struggle of over 100 years with no victory in sight.
 We believe that equality should be a given, and that all Greens must work toward that end.
 We are committed to increasing participation of women in politics, government and leadership so they can change laws, make decisions, and create policy solutions that affect and will improve womens lives.
 In July 2002 the National Womens Caucus of the Green Party of the United States was founded to ensure that the Party continues to build and elect Greens to office who will honor that commitment to women.
 We also support, and call on others to support, the many existing and ongoing efforts for women:     Social Equality   We support the equal application of the Constitution of the United States of America to all citizens, and therefore call for passage of the Equal Rights Amendment (ERA).
 We urge accelerated ratification by three or more of the remaining states that are required to pass the ERA into law and into the Constitution.
 We urge renewed efforts and campaigns to ratify the ERA.
 We support the Equal Rights Amendment reintroduced in the U.
 Congress, and support using the precedent of a three-state strategy for ratification.
 We call for equal representation of women in Congress, which has not yet been achieved.
 passage of CEDAW, the Convention on the Elimination of all forms of Discrimination Against Women, which was adopted in 1979 by the U.
 General Assembly and now ratified by nearly all countries.
 is one of the very few countries that have not ratified it.
 The Equal Employment Opportunities Commission should actively investigate and prosecute sexual harassment complaints.
 Women who file complaints must not be persecuted and should be protected under federal and state law.
 We must enshrine in law the basic principle that women have the same rights as men, and promote gender equality and fairness in the work force to ensure that women receive equal pay for jobs of equal worth.
 We support the inclusion of an equal number of women and men in peace talks and negotiations, not only because these efforts directly affect their lives and those of their spouses, partners, significant others, children and families, but also because when women are involved, the negotiations are more successful.
 Reproductive Rights   Womens rights must be protected and expanded to guarantee each womans right as a full participant in society, free from sexual harassment, job discrimination or interference in the intensely personal choice about whether to have a child.
 Womens right to control their bodies is non-negotiable.
 It is essential that the option of a safe, legal abortion remains available.
 The morning-after pill must be affordable and easily accessible without a prescription, together with a government-sponsored public relations campaign to educate women about this form of contraception.
 Clinics must be accessible and must offer advice on contraception and the means for contraception; consultation about abortion and the performance of abortions; and abortion regardless of age or marital status.
 We endorse womens right to use contraception and, when they choose, to have an abortion.
 This right cannot be limited to womens age or marital status.
 Contraception and abortion must be included in all health insurance policies in the U.
, and any state government must be able to legally offer these services free of charge to women at the poverty level.
 Public health agencies operating abroad should be allowed to offer family planning, contraception, and abortion in all countries that ask for those services.
 We oppose our governments habit of cutting family planning funds when those funds go to agencies in foreign countries that give out contraceptive devices, offer advice on abortion, and perform abortions.
 We encourage women and men to prevent unwanted pregnancies.
 It is the inalienable right and duty of every woman to learn about her body and to be aware of the phases of her menstrual cycle, and it is the duty for every man to be aware of the functions and health of his and his partners bodies.
 This information is necessary for self-determination, to make informed decisions, and to prevent unintended consequences.
 Unplanned conception takes control away from individuals and makes them subject to external controls.
 Economic Equality   Nationally, women as a whole earn only a portion of what men earn and women of color earn even less, despite the U.
 We support intensified effort to see this unfair gap closed, including support for the Paycheck Fairness Act and similar legislation, and greater effort at enforcement.
 Single mothers are the largest and most severely impoverished group in the United States, which explains why a substantial number of children in our country live below the poverty line.
 Welfare reform has forced mothers to abandon their children while they travel to work at minimum wage jobs.
 With the extreme pay inequity, single mothers cannot afford child care, nurture their children, and move out of poverty.
 The Green Party supports real reforms to end poverty and return dignity and opportunity to all mothers.
 We call for implementing innovative programs that work with the particular and special needs of motherhood.
 We also support other programs such as a universal basic income (known also as a guaranteed income or Citizen Dividend, as described in True Cost Pricing and Tax Fairness, IV.
) that will provide for those who nurture the next generation  work that is of incalculable importance to our society.
 Sexual Equality and Protection from Exploitation   We affirm the womanhood of asexual, bisexual, heterosexual, intersex, lesbian, polyamorous, and transgender women and their right to be treated with dignity and respect.
 We affirm the right of all women to experience and enjoy sexuality, particularly those who have been denied such rights in the past.
 The expression of our unique sexuality is a human right and we support laws that protect this right.
 We support decriminalizing sex for pay by consenting adults so that the people who have sex for pay can make full use of legal, health and labor protections for protection against abuse and exploitation.
 We support the right of people who have sex for pay to receive public services, including medical treatment, child care and housing, and access to education, unemployment benefits and social security.
 We support criminal laws to prevent forced sex for pay, human trafficking, abuse and violence.
 We acknowledge that discrimination, marginalization and other structural inequities affect peoples decision to engage in sex for pay and we support government benefits, job training and educational programs for those who want to leave the industry.
 Policies of decriminalizing both the seller and purchaser of sex have shown the potential to reduce harm to workers but the data is not conclusive regarding whether they increase trafficking.
 The Green Party will support the policy that shows the greatest efficacy in reducing trafficking while increasing worker safety and ensuring fairness and equity for women in all economic levels around the world.
 We support laws that protect children from all forms of exploitation.
 This includes protection from sexual exploitation, child prostitution and all forms of sexual abuse, violence and harassment, including pressuring or forcing children to engage in sexual activity and the use of children in pornographic acts and materials.
 Early or forced marriage and harmful traditions such as genital mutilation shall be prohibited.
 Violence and Oppression   Language is often used as a weapon by those with power, and women have traditionally borne the brunt of inflicted injuries.
 However, we believe that this freedom should not be used to perpetuate oppression and abuse.
 All people have the right to be free from violence, including all physical and psychological abuse and economic exploitation, sexual harassment and violence, rape and other forms of coerced sex, including in or outside marriage or partnerships, in detention, and in armed conflict Violence against women is increasing nationwide.
 We must address the root cause of all violence even as we specifically address violence to women.
 We support stronger legislation, programs and enforcement.
 We also call for new dialog and re-thinking that can lead to better language, ideas and solutions.
 We urge that the term domestic violence be replaced by the term violence, because domestic violence is not perceived as real violence, which leads to it not being treated legally and practically for the violence that it is.
 We urge that the term sex work not be used in relation to prostitution.
 With the increasing conflation of trafficking (the violent and illegal trafficking in women and girls for forced sex) with prostitution, it is impossible to know which is which, and what violence the term sex work is masking.
 No source in existence knows which forms of prostitution comprise forced sex and which comprise free will or choice prostitution.
 An increasing number of experts think the percentage of choice prostitution is very small, leaving the larger number of women exposed to serious and often fatal violence.
 Much of what is commonly called prostitution is actually sex trafficking by definition.
 The Green Party calls for a safer world for women and girls.
 The Green Party has zero tolerance for the illegal international trafficking in humans.
 Of the millions of humans trafficked worldwide, the large majority are women and children who are bought and sold as slaves.
 They are kept captive and in debt-bondage that can never be paid off.
 Most are sold over and over again for forced sex prostitution.
 Some are forced to labor in agriculture, sweat shops, hotels, restaurants, domestic service and other forms of servitude.
 Coercive tactics  including deception, fraud, intimidation, isolation, threat and use of physical force, or debt bondage  are used to control women.
 vary greatly from 18,000 to 50,000 to over 100,000 with a worldwide estimate of over 27 million, the majority of which are women and girls.
 The Green Party supports all efforts to eradicate this extreme abuse of human rights, including but not limited to enforcement of existing laws and passage of tough new ones, punishing traffickers, aiding victims, increasing public awareness, reforming immigration laws, supporting existing programs and creating new ones.
 We support the State Departments annual Trafficking in Persons Report as an important document to begin to combat this abuse.
 We support and urge enforcement of the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act (HR 3244) signed into law on October 28, 2000.
 This Act authorizes funding for the prevention of trade in human beings and for protecting victims.
 It gives the State Department an historic opportunity to create an office with the exclusive responsibility of ending traffic in humans and protecting the victims of this worldwide trade.
 We urge committed political support to achieve the cooperation of all different levels of government.
 legislation relating to prostitution modeled on the Swedish law passed in 1999, now adopted by other countries and being considered by more, that has drastically reduced human trafficking and prostitution in Sweden.
 That law criminalizes the purchase of services from prostitutes, pimps and brothel keepers instead of criminalizing the prostitutes.
 to open dialogs and visit with Sweden as a step toward introducing legislation in the U.
 Congress to address the exploitation, violence and harm to women through prostitution.
 The Green Party supports all efforts to eradicate this extreme abuse of human rights, including but not limited to enforcement of existing laws and passage of tough new ones, punishing traffickers, aiding victims, increasing public awareness, reforming immigration laws, supporting existing programs and creating new ones.
 We support the State Departments annual Trafficking in Persons Report as an important document to begin to combat this abuse.
 We support and urge enforcement of the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act (HR 3244) signed into law on October 28, 2000.
 This Act authorizes funding for the prevention of trade in human beings and for protecting victims.
 It gives the State Department an historic opportunity to create an office with the exclusive responsibility of ending traffic in humans and protecting the victims of this worldwide trade.
 We urge committed political support to achieve the cooperation of all different levels of government.
 The Green Party urges a more thorough dialog and understanding of violence against women and girls, including from prostitution and trafficking, that causes health and injury damage that seriously degrades their lives, even to death or premature death including from HIV, syphilis and many other diseases, as well as causing severe economic hardships.
 We call for solutions to this enormous problem that can result in awareness and the introduction of legislation in the U.
 Pathway To Citizenship   Laws to oppress immigrants have been proposed by states, Congress, and numerous administrations.
 Millions of immigrants and supporters of justice for immigrants have marched in the streets.
 Politicians have constantly stirred up anti-immigrant sentiment among sections of the U.
 imperialism; a policy of extending a countrys power and influence through diplomacy or military force, and colonialism; the policy or practice of acquiring full or partial political control over another country, occupying it with settlers, economic exploitation, unfair trade policies, economic sanctions, unequal distribution of assets, increase in violence, and climate change have caused many of the worlds citizens to migrate for better opportunities.
 We must address all peoples humanitarian needs as we chart a course toward a less cumbersome pathway to citizenship.
 The Green Party stands firmly for social justice for all living in this country regardless of immigration status.
 Anything less would be inconsistent with our Green Values, and with our nations values.
 The Green Party strives for a world in which persons can freely choose to live in and work in any country they desire.
 We recognize that this would be impractical without reciprocity between nations.
 Citizenship and Immigration Services There are over 10,200 forms, hundreds of immigration statuses, hefty annual renewal fees, and varying steps immigrants must take to start the process for their specific situation.
 Many times applications are denied because the applicant submitted forms for the incorrect category and cause them to lose all filing fees paid up to that point (no refunds.
) This cumbersome immigration process along with unreasonable Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and lawyers fees must be streamlined.
 INHUMANE TREATMENT OF IMMIGRANTS Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), local police, and for-profit/private prison corporations such as GEO Group and CoreCivic have taken advantage of the increase in anti-immigrant legislation and created a symbiotic relationship.
 ICEs mission, To protect America from cross border crime and illegal immigration that threaten national security and public safety.
 This mission is executed through the enforcement of more than 400 federal statutes and focuses on immigration enforcement and combating transnational crime, subscribes to the belief that every Latin American citizen is a criminal.
 Mass incarceration fuels the proliferation of for-profit prisons while for-profit prison corporations encourage policies that increase the number of people behind bars.
 With various states implementing anti-immigrant legislation, setting up detention centers has been an easy contractual agreement with the incentive that they must meet 80% to 100% fill capacity for payment.
 ICE reports they have paid $85,000 per incarcerated individual and a total of $807 million to 19 for-profit detention centers.
 Undocumented immigrants boost Americas economic growth and raise the general productivity of American workers by providing much-needed skills.
 Immigrant workers allow important sectors of the economy to expand, attract investment and create employment opportunities for native-born Americans, contribute more in tax revenue than they collect, reduce American firms incentives to offshore jobs and import foreign-produced goods, and benefit consumers by reducing the prices of goods and services.
 Economists estimate that legalization of the undocumented immigrant population would increase the immigrants earnings and consumption considerably, and increase U.
 needs a complete overhaul of its immigration laws, procedures, and programs.
 Our current situation has created extreme social injustice.
 Millions of people are living and working in the U.
 with no legal status, making them subject to extreme exploitation and abuse.
 Immigration raids are terrorizing the immigrant community.
 Employer abuses of undocumented workers are rampant.
 Immigration policies such as separating families at the border, kids in cages, and the Title 42 program which allows the United States Border Patrol and U.
 Customs to prohibit the entry of persons who potentially pose a health risk (a racist policy to fast track deportations and prohibit refugees to seek asylum on U.
 The Green Party must consider immigration issues from an international standpoint, taking into account international labor and environmental standards, and human rights.
 The following proposals may not yield perfect answers, but they provide better answers than the status quo.
 We must recognize that there cannot be any true solutions to the conflicts created by immigration until we are able to organize globally to overcome the power of multinational corporations, which are engaged in an unending campaign to drive down workers living standards everywhere.
 International cooperation and solidarity among labor organizations, to advance the rights of labor and raise such living standards globally, are essential to combat this trend.
 Until the power of the multinationals is curbed, we will continue to be confronted with seemingly no win choices.
 When the government has the power to deny legal rights and due process to one vulnerable group, everyones rights are at risk.
 We must end xenophobia and white supremacy to address laws and practices that punish and target individuals for their immigration status, national origin, ethnicity and race, to build power among the people.
 We must stand up for community members who have been excluded, oppressed, and maltreated and for people who have been subjected to multiple systems of oppression and exclusion.
 Our goal is for the many diverse immigrant communities to possess true freedom and equality.
 We propose the following immigration policies, consistent with the Ten Key Values.
 Policy Reform In many countries economic policies, military actions of the U.
 based corporations, and natural disasters have caused extreme hardships.
 These individuals must be prioritized to escape the intolerable conditions.
 We believe all immigrants must be granted a pathway to citizenship without cumbersome fees nor civil rights restrictions.
 In addition, we demand a recognition of past, uncredited payments into Social Security as part of any fees assessed for regularization of status.
 Persons should only be excluded if their background check presents a clear and present danger.
 We believe the following policies should be enacted:   Undocumented immigrants who are already residing and working in the United States, and their families, should be granted legal status which allows a pathway to citizenship.
 All DACA and TPS recipients must be immediately granted a pathway to citizenship.
 All essential workers such as farm workers must be granted permanent residency and a pathway citizenship   Permanent border passes to all citizens of Latin America and Canada whose identity can be traced and verified.
 The matricula consular should be accepted as one means of proving ones identity.
 Work permits for citizens of Latin America and Canada must be easily obtainable, thereby decriminalizing the act of gainful employment.
 This action would help eliminate exploitation of undocumented persons by criminals engaged in human contraband (coyotes) and unethical employers.
 It would also help ensure that taxes will be paid in each corresponding nation per its laws.
 These measures will also help temporary residents from Mexico and Canada to secure driving privileges and liability insurance.
 All persons fleeing political, racial, religious, or other types of persecution must be welcomed and granted permanent resident status and a pathway to citizenship.
 The history of arbitrary denial of political asylum claims must end.
 Particular attention should be given to those minorities who are political exiles and refugees and those whose lives would be at risk if asylum is not granted   All those who are issued work permits must have the option to come and go from the U.
 They must also be granted a pathway to citizenship   The long wait to petition for a family member to join them in the US.
 We must prioritize family reunification for the sake of safety.
 Permanent residency should not be denied based on political views, racial or national origin, religious beliefs, sexual orientation, disability, or any other arbitrary basis.
 We must keep faith with our commitment to the United Nations, to assist in the resettlement, including to our own country, of refugees currently stranded in refugee camps in other parts of the world.
 Interim Measures Recognizing that a just reform of immigration policy may take some time, the Green Party supports: Measures to allow undocumented immigrants to obtain drivers licenses if they can prove their identity and pass the required tests.
 This will improve road safety and allow the undocumented who are driving in any case to obtain insurance.
 Measures to give legal status to undocumented immigrants who graduate from high school in the U.
 and who are otherwise qualified, to allow them to attend colleges and universities on an equal basis with other high school graduates.
 The Green Party is opposed to efforts to force undocumented youth into becoming cannon fodder for the U.
 Reduce wait lists and make the system work more efficiently: current numeric caps on immigrant visas must be increased.
 The current system of quotas and preferences has to be thoroughly and realistically reformed.
 Current backlogs must be brought up to date as soon as possible.
 Wait times for processing and resolving immigration benefit applications should be reduced to no more than six months.
 Pre-1996 screening criteria for legal permanent residency and citizenship applications should be restored.
 Immigrant workers do not compete for jobs with current citizens and should not be punished for being victims of U.
 We must stop using our tax dollars to subsidize corporate agribusiness and to promote poverty in Latin America, and start using them to help reward environmentally responsible family farmers, encourage improved infrastructure and economic conditions in Latin America, and raise labor standards, at home and abroad.
 Here at home, we must also promote the policies, as outlined in the Economy and Workers' Rights sections of this Platform, that can help us achieve a full employment economy at a living wage, including strictly enforcing and expanding the rights of all workers to form unions.
 We advocate an end to employer sanctions, which have been shown to hurt not only undocumented workers but also U.
 Instead, the focus on employers must be to vigorously enforce our wage and labor laws.
 Instead of further victimizing the victims of corporate globalization, create real opportunities and raise labor standards for all! We oppose the provision of current law which allows local police to become agents of the immigration agency.
 Local policing functions should be totally separate from immigration enforcement.
 Immigrants already have ample incentive to learn English.
 But when interaction with the government is limited to the English speaking, persons are put at additional risk of exploitation.
 The focus needs to be on providing adequate and accessible English language instruction and assistance.
 We advocate legislation to ensure that federal funds marked for communities to provide ESL (English as second language) training, and health and social support services to immigrants actually go to them.
 When funds are spent in other areas, immigrants are being deprived of benefits that they earn as productive workers in their communities.
 Meanwhile, courts, social service agencies, and all government agencies dealing with the public must provide trained and certified translators.
 Additionally, the language rights of peoples who were in this land before it became part of the U.
, including Native Americans and Mexicans in the Southwest, must be recognized and respected.
 We oppose the militarization of our borders, (mis)using the National Guard as border police, and building a wall between the U.
 This will further intensify the human rights disaster our immigration policy has become, as well as seriously harm border ecosystems.
 We demand an immediate end to policies designed to force undocumented border-crossers into areas where conditions dramatically increase the risk of permanent injury or death, destruction of fragile environments, and the cutting off of corridors needed by wildlife for migration within their habitat.
 For these reasons we specifically oppose the walling off of both traditional urban crossing areas and of wilderness areas.
 We also call for the immediate dismantling of the border wall.
 We mourn the death of those thousands of men, women and children who have died trying to cross this border, where a couple of decades ago such deaths were virtually unheard of.
 We must resist proposals that use illegal immigration as an excuse to put us all under further government monitoring and control by means of a national ID card or other identification or tracking systems.
 We also oppose the imposition of the "E-Verify" system to screen people applying for jobs.
 Citizen workers who have been propagandized to support "tougher" measures to identify and apprehend undocumented workers need to carefully consider what they are asking for.
 The same snare they want the government to use against undocumented workers can easily be used to repress them.
 Our government is already engaged in illegal spying and surveillance of its own citizens.
 A national ID card system is one of the hallmarks of a totalitarian government or police state.
 We need to repeal the Real ID Act and resist the establishment of any system that would suppress freedom to travel and require citizens and non-citizens alike to "show their papers" and reveal their private information to government monitors at every turn.
 We demand recognition of the sovereignty of indigenous nations whose territories cross national boundaries.
 These indigenous nations have the right to determine the status of their members.
 We demand new policies and laws that deal more effectively and humanely with the victims of illegal international trafficking in humans  primarily women and children who are bought, kidnapped, coerced, brutalized, defrauded, tricked, sold and marketed for forced sex (rape) and prostitution, with an estimated 50,000 trafficked to the U.
 We call for stiffer, more appropriate policy, structure and laws to deal with traffickers, and also demand that procedures to deport victims before the traffickers are prosecuted must be changed to allow the victims to testify against the traffickers, which plays a major role in bringing these cases to justice and helping stem the tide of this heinous crime.
 The victims of trafficking should have the option of permanent residence in the U.
 or return to their home countries, according to their own choice.
 Reparations and a Black Agenda   The development of the United States was tainted by the displacement of Native Americans and the barbaric institution of slavery, built upon the belief in white supremacy, which we as Greens condemn.
 In slaverys aftermath, people of color have borne the brunt of violence and discrimination.
 The Green Party unequivocally condemns these evils, which continue to be a social problem of paramount significance.
 Reparations   The descendants of enslaved Africans, whose ancestors endured centuries of human rights violations, including the Transatlantic slave trade now recognized by the United Nations as a crime against humanity, have legitimate claims to reparations including monetary compensation.
 As our Nation has done in the past with respect to the Choctaw, the Lakota, the Lambuth, and more recently for Japanese Americans and the European Jewish community, reparations are now due to address the debt still owed to descendants of enslaved Africans.
 We recognize that reparations are a debt (not charity) that is due from the government, corporations, and institutions that profited from slavery and racial exploitation.
 We believe in elevating the voices of Black activists and leaders in policy development and decision-making processes within the African American community, whose right to self-determination and autonomy to chart the path to healing we fully recognize as part of the Black Agenda.
 Black Agenda   While the specific elements of full and complete reparations are still evolving, the Green Partys existing platform positions already align with many other aspects of the Black agenda.
 These alignments focus on environmental justice, economic equity, and community health, to empower Black communities and address systemic inequalities.
 We support the following initial steps, aligning with the Black agenda:     Establish a reparations trust fund financed by recovered wealth and other profits accumulated from the slave trade.
 Funds will be sourced from recovered wealth amassed by slave trade beneficiaries, corporations that profited from racial exploitation, and potential taxes on wealth accumulated through historical systemic disparities.
 Descendants of enslaved Africans, through their chosen representatives and organizations, will have a central role in shaping the calculation, distribution, and use of the reparations trust fund.
 We recognize that money is the governing factor and that our privately owned debt-based financial system is rooted in the exploitation of people and the planet.
 It has perpetuated the legacy of colonialism, slavery, and systemic discrimination.
 To achieve true equity and sustainability, we must fundamentally transform our nations current monetary system to a public asset-based system.
 This will enable our elected representatives to address all the economic injustices, including nurturing Black businesses, closing the racial wealth gap, providing crucial financial resources and support services directly to Black entrepreneurs and cooperatives, empowering us to thrive and contribute to the economic well-being of our communities.
 We recognize that full employment and a national minimum wage are essential to achieving both economic justice and environmental sustainability.
 We support prioritizing green jobs and investment in historically disadvantaged communities, alongside policies like worker cooperatives and a guaranteed minimum income funded by progressive taxation, to finally break the cycle of poverty and end environmental racism.
 Initiate the repeal of the slave clauses within the U.
 They contribute to ongoing racial disparities, mass incarceration, and other injustices.
 Work to restore lands stolen from Black communities through various discriminatory practices like the Sharecropping system and land ownership restrictions that continue to impact Black farmers opportunities and success.
 We also demand access to safe, secure, and affordable housing  free from discriminatory practices like redlining and forced evictions.
 We support policies that empower us to plan and preserve our land or neighborhoods, prioritize community needs over large-scale displacement, and invest in culturally sensitive revitalization efforts.
 Support the release of all political prisoners held by the USA.
 State to imprison Black individuals whose imprisonment stems from their defense of Black peoples democratic and self-determination rights, regardless of the specific location or movement associated with their activities.
 Support existing Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and Education and Development Funds.
 Take action to overcome the effects of over 200 years of racial discrimination, including ending official support for any remaining symbols of slavery, specifically call for the removal of the Confederate battle flag from all government buildings, and addressing issues like racial profiling, police brutality, voting rights, and access to language resources.
 We oppose discriminatory English-only pressure groups.
 We call for a national language policy that would encourage all citizens to be fluent in at least two languages.
 We strongly support the vigorous enforcement of civil-rights laws, the aggressive prosecution of hate crimes, and the strengthening of legal services for the poor, including:   Black Women: We pledge full partnership with Black women as architects of our liberation, wielding power equally to build a world free from oppression.
 Self-Defense: When facing violence, the right to defend ourselves is intrinsic.
 While advocating peaceful solutions, we affirm self-defense as a tool for justice.
 Voting Rights: Winner-take-all denies true representation.
 We demand proportional voting systems that amplify Black voices, reflecting our diverse aspirations.
 Protect and Preserve African/African American Cemeteries   We call upon government agencies at all levels to protect and preserve African/African American cemeteries in the US and its territories.
 Special attention is needed to ensure that these sacred burial grounds are identified and appropriately marked to prevent accidental or intentional desecration.
 The erasure of African/African-American history, such as the desecration of African cemeteries, is the bedrock and foundation of white supremacy.
 Desecration is one of the physical manifestations of genocide and historic trauma.
 The Green Party calls for the immediate cessation of any and all drilling, excavation and/or digging of soils in all African/African American Cemeteries in the US and its territories.
 We call for the Department of Justice to bring criminal charges against all parties involved in the desecration of any such cemetery.
 We call for reparations and the immediate repatriation of all remains and bone fragments previously displaced from any such cemeteries to the descendant community.
 The destruction of cemeteries and graveyards is understood to be a distinct form of cultural violence.
 Cultural destruction during genocidal campaigns is a dimension of genocide itself and is evidence of the intent to completely erase the targeted group from existence.
 (1) Killing the dead: The logic of cemetery destruction during genocidal campaigns, Noa Krikler, European Institute, March 6, 2023, DOI: 10.
12956   We understand that such desecration is a violent, political, cultural, and spiritual act, perpetuated by those holding political and economic power committed to erasing the legacy, significance, history, memory, and ancestry of the oppressed to dominate and hold hegemonic power.
 Desecration seeks to launder and plunder sacred land, thus transferring wealth from vulnerable groups to landowning aristocracies.
 Indigenous Peoples   We have great respect for Native American cultures, especially their deference for community and the Earth.
 We recognize both the sovereignty of Native American tribal governments and the Federal Government's trust obligation to Native American people.
 Native American nations are just that  nations  and should be treated in like fashion, with the special circumstance that they are located within the United States.
 The federal government is obligated to deal in good faith with Native Americans; honor its treaty obligations; adequately fund programs for the betterment of tribal governments and their people; affirm the religious rights of Native Americans in ceremonies (American Indian Religious Freedom Act); provide funds for innovative economic development initiatives, education and public health programs; and respect land, water and mineral rights within the borders of reservations and traditional lands.
 We support efforts to broadly reform the Bureau of Indian Affairs to make this vast agency more responsible and more responsive to tribal governments.
 We support the just settlement of the claims of the thousands of Native American uranium miners who have suffered and died from radiation exposure.
 We condemn the stance of secrecy taken by the Atomic Energy Commission during this era and its subsequent claim of government immunity, taken knowingly and immorally at the expense of Native people.
 We support the complete clean-up of those mines and tailing piles, which are a profoundly destructive legacy of the Cold War.
 Native American land and treaty rights often stand as the front line against government and multinational corporate attempts to plunder energy, mineral, timber, fish, and game resources; pollute water, air, and land in the service of the military; expand economically; and consume natural resources.
 We support legal, political, and grassroots efforts by, and on behalf of, Native Americans to protect their traditions, rights, livelihoods, and sacred spaces.
 The Green Party supports the rights of indigenous peoples to their lands, their ways of life, and all other rights of free peoples.
 We support the Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples adopted by the UN General Assembly on September 13, 2007, and call for its provisions to be actively supported by our own government and by governments worldwide.
 Justice for Native Hawaiians: Kanaka Maoli   Since illegal annexation in 1898, the federal and state governments have cheated and neglected the native Hawaiian people.
 Congress passed, and President Clinton signed into law, the "Apology Bill" (U.
 This admission of crime states in part, "the native Hawaiians have never lost their inherent sovereignty nor their national home base.
" The Green Party demands justice for Kanaka Maoli.
 We support the following:   Protecting sacred and culturally significant sites.
 Kanaka maoli leadership and guardianship in protecting gathering rights, and lobbying the legislature to safeguard these rights without interference.
 Return of, or fair compensation for, ceded lands.
 Immediate distribution of Hawaiian Homelands, with government funds allocated for the necessary infrastructure.
 Prohibition of future sale or diminishments of the Ceded Land Trust.
 A call for open dialogue among all residents of Hawai'i on the sovereignty option of full independence.
 Hawaiian sovereignty in a form that is fair to both native Hawaiians and other residents of Hawai'i.
 We acknowledge and actively endorse the inherent and absolute right of indigenous nations to self-determination, and thereby call upon the U.
 government to reverse its opposition to enactment of the proposed United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples in its entirety.
 Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity   In keeping with the Green Key Values of diversity, social justice and feminism, we support full legal and political equality for all persons regardless of sex, gender, sexual orientation, or gender identity, characteristics, and expression.
 The Green Party affirms the rights of all individuals to freely choose intimate partners, regardless of their sex, gender, or gender identity.
 The Green Party recognizes the full civil rights of sexual and gender minorities.
 The existing civil rights act prohibits discriminating on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, age, and disability.
 We will work to add sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression to the existing civil rights act.
 The Green Party will be inclusive of language in local, state and federal anti-discrimination law that ensures the rights of intersex individuals and prohibits discrimination based on gender identity, characteristics, and expression as well as on sex, gender, or sexual orientation.
 Gender critical or trans-exclusionary social theories such as the sex-based womens rights declaration are not recognized as radical inclusive feminism and will be opposed by the Green Party.
 We are opposed to non-consenting intersex genital surgery.
 The Green Party affirms the right of all persons to self-determination with regard to gender identity and sex.
 We affirm the right of choosing non-binary and gender fluid identification.
 We therefore support the right of individuals to be free from coercion and involuntary assignment of gender or sex.
 We will pursue legislation where offenders must pay compensation to Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, Intersex, Asexual (LGBTQIA) people who have suffered violence and injustice.
 The Green Party will end all Federal military aid to national governments whose laws result in the death, other harm, or imprisonment of its citizens and residents who are Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, Intersex, Asexual (LGBTQIA).
 Government recognize all same sex marriages or legal equivalents such as civil unions, in processing visitor and immigration visas.
 The Green Party would end security surveillance and covert infiltration of organizations that promote rights for sexual and gender minorities.
 Rights of the Disabled   We support the full enforcement of the Americans with Disabilities Act to enable all people with disabilities to achieve independence and function at the highest possible level.
 Government should work to ensure that children with disabilities are provided with the same educational opportunities as those without disabilities.
 The physically and mentally challenged are people who are differently abled from the majority, but who are nevertheless able to live independently.
 The mentally ill are people with serious mental problems who often need social support networks.
 Physically and mentally challenged people have the right to live independently in their communities.
 The mentally ill also have the right to live independently, circumscribed only by the limitations of their illness.
 These people are their own best advocates in securing their rights and for living in the social and economic mainstream.
 Current Medicaid policy forces many challenged people to live in costly state-funded institutions.
 Excluding these people from society alienates them; excluding them from the work force denies them the chance to use their potentials.
 The diminishing funds available to provide care for the growing number of the mentally ill often result in their homelessness, vagrancy and dependence on short-term crisis facilities.
 Lack of funding also increases the necessity ofplacing them in long-term, locked facilities.
 The Green Party urges the government to:   Increase rehabilitation funding so that persons with disabilities can pursue education and training to reach their highest potential.
 The differently abled should participate fully in the allocation decisions of state rehabilitation departments' funds.
 Aggressively implement the Americans with Disabilities Act.
 The Green Party supports the ratification of the United Nations Convention on Rights for Persons with Disabilities as well as the Optional Protocol.
 Fund in-home support services to allow the differently abled to hire personal care attendants while remaining at home.
 Allocate adequate funding to support community-based programs that provide out-patient medical services, case management services and counseling programs.
 We should provide a residential setting within the community for those who do not need institutional care but who are unable to live independently.
 Make it easier for the chronically mentally ill to apply for and receive Supplemental Security Income.
 Increase teacher training in regard to the needs of differently abled students.
 Discourage stereotyping of the mentally and physically challenged by the entertainment industry and the media.
 Fund programs to increase public sensitivity to the needs of the mentally ill and differently abled.
 Religious Freedom and Secular Equality   The United States Bill of Rights guarantees freedom of religion.
 We affirm the right of each individual to the exercise of conscience and religion, while maintaining the constitutionally mandated separation of government and religion.
 We believe that federal, state, and local governments must remain neutral regarding religion.
 We call for:   Ending discriminatory federal, state, and local laws against particular religious beliefs, and non-belief.
 Constitution states that there shall be no religious test for public office.
 This requirement should apply to oaths (or affirmations) for holding public office at any level, employment at all government levels, oaths for witnesses in courts, oaths for jury membership, and the oath for citizenship.
 Prosecution of hate crimes based on religious affiliation or practice.
 Elimination of displays of religious symbols, monuments, or statements on government buildings, property, websites, money, or documents.
 Restoration of the Pledge of Allegiance to its pre-1954 version, eliminating the politically motivated addition of "under God.
" Ending faith-based initiatives and charitable choice programs, whereby public funds are used to support religious organizations that do not adhere to specified guidelines and standards, including anti-discrimination laws.
 Ending school vouchers whereby public money pays for students in religious schools.
 Ending governmental use of the doctrines of specific religions to define the nature of family, marriage, and the type and character of personal relationships between consenting adults.
 Ending religiously based curricula in government-funded public schools.
 Ending the use of religion as a justification to deny children necessary medical care or subject them to physical and emotional abuse.
 Ending the use of religion by government to define the role and rights of women in our society.
 Revocation of the Congressional charter of the Boy Scouts of America.
 Any private organization that practices bigotry against certain religious beliefs and classes of people should not have a Congressional endorsement or access to public property and funds.
 Youth Rights   All human beings have the right to a life that will let them achieve their full potential.
 Young people are one of the least protected classes of human beings, yet they represent our future.
 We must ensure they have an upbringing that allows them to take their place as functioning, productive, and self-actualized members of their community.
 Youth are not the property of their parents or guardians, but are under their care and guidance.
 Youth have the right to survive by being provided adequate food, shelter and comprehensive health care, including prenatal care for mothers.
 Youth have the right to be protected from abuse, harmful drugs, violence, environmental hazards, neglect, and exploitation.
 Youth have the right to develop in a safe and nurturing early environment provided by affordable childcare and pre-school preparation.
 Youth have the right to an education that is stimulating, relevant, engaging, and that fosters their natural desire to learn.
 Young people's creative potential should be encouraged to the greatest extent possible.
 Young people should have input into the direction and pace of their own education, including input into the operation of their educational institutions.
 Young people should be provided with education regarding their own and others' sexuality at the earliest appropriate time.
 Young people should be provided the opportunity to express themselves in their own media, including television, radio, films and the Internet.
 Young people should also be given skills in analyzing commercial media.
 Young people should be kept free from coercive advertising at their educational institutions.
 Lower the voting age to 16 for all elections to give young people the right to take part in deciding their future.
 GI and Veterans' Rights   Support for men and women in the armed forces must go far beyond the rhetoric used to discredit the peace movement in the U.
 We believe that the ill-advised and illegal actions of the U.
 administration have unnecessarily put our troops in harm's way.
 We further believe that the dangerous burden of fighting the unnecessary wars in the Middle East, due to the administration's overly narrow and militaristic response to terrorism is disproportionately borne by families of lesser means.
 Those who are required to carry out militaristic policies, often with great hardship to themselves, their families, and even the risk of their lives, deserve our respect and our commitment to adequate compensation and benefits.
 Our first priority in foreign policy considerations is to creating a future without war.
 We are committed that future generations not face the separations and sacrifices of war.
 We recommend the following actions:   Increase the current pay levels, including monthly combat pay, imminent danger pay and family separation allowances for those risking their lives in combat zones.
 Provide better care for the wounded, sick and injured soldiers.
 Restore full funding for veterans' health programs.
 Ensure that the Pentagon takes all steps necessary to fully diagnose and treat the physical and mental health conditions resulting from service in combat zones, including post-traumatic stress disorder.
 Support increased funding for additional clinics to provide services which now are too often delayed or denied throughout the Veterans Affairs system because of over crowding and budget constraints.
 Ensure that all pre-deployment physicals are completed within the standard allotted time period, and that medical follow-ups are routinely given to all soldiers.
 Honor all laws concerning time limits on deployments.
 Ensure a smooth transition from active military service to civilian life by providing counseling, housing, emergency management, job protection and other support systems.
 Soldiers, Sailors, Marines and Airmen who served during U.
 Wars in recent decades have been exposed to nuclear, chemical and possibly biological warfare agents.
 We insist that the Veterans Administration can't ignore their suffering since coming home from the war.
 The Congress should fund and the VA should implement a comprehensive program to survey Vets and the impacts of their deployment on them and their families and to provide the best possible medical treatment available to minimize the suffering of these men and women and their families.
 Veterans are being unfairly discharged from the service with post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and other injuries caused by stress, trauma and head injuries, under trumped-up behavioral charges, as a means of military budget cost-cutting.
 combatants are entitled to medical and psychiatric health care by the VA, after serving any time in a combat zones.
 Service members serving in combat zones are subjected to assorted variations of permanent physical and mental damage and are entitled to treatment by the Veterans Administration.
 This nation has a moral obligation to provide health care services and disability entitlements to its veterans.
 We support funding for additional clinics to provide services which noware too often delayed or denied because of over-crowding and budget constraints throughout the VA system.
 Provide recognized, independent veteran organizations with access to military personnel to ensure they are being informed of their rights, including those who are hospitalized due to service related injuries or illnesses.
 Establish a panel of independent medical doctors to examine and oversee the military policies regarding forced vaccinations and shots, especially with experimental drugs.
 Insist that the military halt the practice of testing experimental medicines and inoculations on service members without their consent.
 Enact a new GI Bill, similar to the one that began after World War II and ended in 1981, to provide tuition grants for four years of college or other educational opportunities, low-interest loans for housing or business start-ups, and free medical care for military personnel and their families for ten years following separation from the armed forces.
 Support a transparent and democratic conscientious objection process free of harassment, imprisonment, or deployment to war zones for conscientious objectors.
 Defend the right of individuals in the military service to modify or completely separate from military involvement because of conscientious objection.
 Consumer Protection   The Green Party supports strong consumer protections against fraud, dangerous products, inadequately tested and potentially harmful pharmaceuticals, environmentally harmful planned obsolescence, excessive interest rates and fees by financial institutions and excessive corporate profits.
 We believe that prevention and justice are at the heart of consumer protection.
 Millions of lives will be saved or lost depending on the strength of our consumer protection laws.
 We aim to stop corporations and others from defrauding consumers or endangering them with defective products or negligence.
 We believe in informed consent and individual autonomy regarding medical decisions.
 We advocate for strong safeguards to ensure patients have access to accurate and comprehensive information about treatment options, potential risks and benefits, and the right to refuse any treatment without penalty or discrimination.
We stand with consumers, who have been harmed by corporations, health care industries, or any other entity, and support their efforts to redress the wrongs done to them.
 We defend whistleblowers who expose corporate misconduct, healthcare negligence, financial fraud, and wasteful practices.
 We recommend the following actions:   Strengthen product safety standards and enforcement for a variety of products, including food, motor vehicles, transportation systems, electronics, consumer goods, medical products, and addictive substance   Restore state health, safety, and consumer protection laws by striking federal preemptions that undermine state regulations on environmental standards, food safety, labor practices, and product liability.
 Preserve and expand product-labeling requirements to ensure that consumers are fully informed about the origin, ingredients, and ecological life cycle of all products, disclosing any animal or human testing involved in the products development or production, and the products organic, recycled, and genetically engineered content.
 Require clear and accessible labeling on the nutritional content, including vegetarian and vegan information, for food, beverages, toiletries, and clothing products.
 Medical and dental products should follow relevant regulatory labeling requirements.
 Require stringent Eco-Labeling requirements which show the environmental impacts associated with the production or use of a product.
 This may include land use, water use, waste byproducts, emissions, and more.
 Prohibit corporations from concealing information about public health, labor conditions or environmental safety via protective orders or confidential settlements.
 Empower consumers through expanded class action rights against manufacturers of unsafe products and practices.
 We call for a strengthened civil justice system with adequate resources to prevent consumer harm, deter corporate wrongdoing, and ensure timely and effective justice for those already impacted   Protect whistleblowers and employees who refuse to participate in illegal conduct or conduct that otherwise is harmful to the public interest, from any form of retaliation.
 While acknowledging the need for improvements in legal processes, we oppose tort reforms that limit consumers ability to seek fair redress for legitimate grievances.
 We similarly call for healthcare reforms that prioritize patient safety and hold medical professionals accountable for negligence, while promoting open communication and a culture of continuous improvement.
 Grant consumers the right to limit collection and secondary use of personal information by any commercial entity particularly through invasive data collection practices, AI-powered surveillance, and other privacy-violating technologies.
 Advocate for comprehensive usury laws that protect consumers from all forms of predatory lending, including excessive interest rates, hidden, excessive or unwarranted fees and other abusive terms   Prohibit the widespread practice of price gouging that disproportionately harms vulnerable consumers and exacerbates economic inequality.
 Reform the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005 to restore fair access to Chapter 7 bankruptcy as a viable final safety net for those burdened by medical bills, predatory loans, and student debt.
 Economic justice requires accessible paths to financial recovery.
 Ban the use of mandatory arbitration clauses in consumer contracts, employment and healthcare agreements, stripping individuals of their rights and access to fair dispute resolution processes, ensuring equal access to justice.
 Office of Consumer Affairs by granting the necessary authority and resources to coordinate consumer protection efforts across existing agencies, fill gaps in current systems, and address emerging issues   Empower communities to take control of their utilities by forming strong, well-supported Citizens Utility Boards.
 We support policies that make formation easier, amplify voices, and enable lower costs, cleaner energy, and a more accountable and sustainable utility landscape.
 Adoptee Rights   Due to current laws millions of adults that were adopted as children are now being denied access to vital records regarding their births.
 This is a basic human right that the Green Party should be committed to help in abolishing the secrets and lies that surround many adoptions around the world by creating necessary transparency between adoptees, their mothers and adoptive parents.
 Reform items include the following:   Immediate and direct access to all identifying birth, hospital, foster care and adoption agency records and files concerning the adult adoptee (including the original adoption plans and any contracts that pertain to the adoptee or in which they are mentioned) to assist with researching their genealogy, medical history and the truth regarding the circumstances surrounding their adoptions and, if applicable, their time in foster care.
 Strict financial penalties need to be enforced when birth/adoption records have been lost or destroyed while under the care of agencies, hospitals, lawyers, etc.
 that have assumed the responsibility of storing these vital records.
 Full reparations for historical injustices in adoption.
 Environmental Justice   The Green Party supports a holistic approach to justice, recognizing that environmental justice, social justice and economic justice depend on and support each other.
 We believe that no one  including people of color and the poor  should be poisoned nor subjected to harmful levels of toxic chemicals and that no group of people should bear a disproportionate share of the pollution from industrial, governmental and commercial sources or policies.
 Across the United States, the poor and people of color do suffer disproportionately from environmental hazards in the workplace, at home, and in their communities.
 Inadequate environmental laws, lax enforcement, and weak penalties for environmental violations undermine environmental integrity, public health and civil rights.
 Environmental justice is the crossroads of environmental activism and the civil rights movement.
 It is founded on two fundamental beliefs: that all people have the right to live, work, learn, and play in safe and healthful environments; and that people have the right to influence decisions that affect environmental quality in their communities.
 We believe that government must ensure the fair treatment of people of all races, cultures, and incomes with respect to the development, adoption, implementation, and enforcement of environmental laws, regulations and policies.
 To accomplish this, we unconditionally support implementation of the principle of environmental justice in our practices, policies and laws across the nation.
 We recommend the following actions:   Make "pollution prevention" the preferred strategy for dealing with environmental justice issues, through eliminating environmental threats before they occur and considering cumulative environmental impacts when evaluating risk.
 Uphold the precautionary principle, requiring polluters to bear the burden of proof in demonstrating the safety of their practices.
 Expand the application of the precautionary principle from chemicals and health to land use, waste, energy, food policy and local economic development.
 Expand the public trust doctrine, which holds that government's role is to protect the commons, to include the domains of public health and protection of the natural environment.
 Promote programs, policies, and legislation that build the capacity to identify disproportionate or discriminatory siting of polluting or toxic facilities.
 Assure non-discriminatory compliance with all environmental, health and safety laws to guarantee equal protection.
 Facilitate procedural justice, ensuring the public's right to know.
 Ensure rules and regulations are transparent to help communities employ their rights and participate in decision-making.
 Provide information in languages appropriate to the affected communities.
 Enforce corrective justice, ensuring the rights of communities and local agencies to seek judicial redress.
 Communities and local agencies must not be required to show or prove "intent to discriminate" to achieve redress for problems of disproportionate and/or racist environmental impacts.
 Target precautionary and corrective justice actions and resources in communities with the highest concentrations of environmental hazards and in communities lacking socioeconomic resources.
 Support, enforce and strengthen the National Environmental Policy Act.
 Economic Justice / Social Safety Net   The passage of the 1996 Welfare Act by Congress and its signing by the President confronts us with hard choices.
 Democrats and Republicans seem to be saying the country cannot afford to care for children and poor mothers.
 In ending over fifty years of federal policy guaranteeing cash assistance for poor children, Congress has set in motion a radical experiment that will have a profound impact on the lives of the weakest members of our society.
 How will state, city and county governments, local communities, businesses and religious institutions  all of us  respond? We have a special responsibility to the health and wellbeing of the young.
 Yet we see the federal safety net being removed and replaced with limited and potentially harsh state welfare programs.
 How will social services be adequately provided if local resources are already stretched thin? We believe our community priorities must first protect the young and helpless.
 Yet how will state legislatures and agencies, under pressure from more powerful interests, react? We believe local decision-making is important, but we realize, as we learned during the civil rights era, that strict federal standards must guide state actions in providing basic protections.
 As the richest nation in history, we should not condemn millions of children to a life of poverty, while corporate welfare is increased to historic highs.
 The Green Party opposes the privatization of Social Security.
 It is critical that the public protections of Social Security are not privatized and subjected to increased risk.
 The bottom 20% of American senior citizens get roughly 80% of their income from Social Security, and without Social Security, nearly 70% of black elderly and 60% of Latino elderly households would be in poverty.
 Welfare: A Commitment to Ending Poverty   An unjust society is an unsustainable society.
 When communities are stressed by poverty, violence and despair, our ability to meet the challenges of the post industrial age are critically impaired.
 A holistic, future-focused perspective on how we distribute resources in this country would consider the effects of such distribution not just on our present needs, but on the seventh generation to come.
 It is time for a radical shift in our attitude toward support for families, children, the poor and the disabled.
 Such support must not be given grudgingly; it is the right of those presently in need and an investment in our future.
 We must take an uncompromising position that the care and nurture of children, elders and the disabled are essential to a healthy, peaceful, and sustainable society.
 We should recognize that the work of their caregivers is of social and economic value, and reward it accordingly.
 Ensuring that children and their caregivers have access to an adequate, secure standard of living should form the cornerstone of our economic priorities.
 Only then can we hope to build our future on a foundation of healthy, educated children who are raised in an atmosphere of love and security.
 All people have a right to food, housing, medical care, jobs that pay a living wage, education, and support in times of hardship.
 Work performed outside the monetary system has inherent social and economic value, and is essential to a healthy, sustainable economy and peaceful communities.
 Such work includes: child and elder care; homemaking; voluntary community service; continuing education; participating in government; and the arts.
 We call for restoration of a federally funded entitlement program to support children, families, the unemployed, elderly and disabled, with no time limit on benefits.
 This program should be funded through the existing welfare budget, reductions in military spending and corporate subsidies, and a fair, progressive income tax.
 We call for a graduated supplemental income, or negative income tax, that would maintain all individual adult incomes above the poverty level, regardless of employment or marital status.
 We advocate reinvesting a significant portion of the military budget into family support, living-wage job development, and work training programs.
 Publicly funded work training and education programs should have a goal of increasing employment options at finding living-wage jobs.
 We support public funding for the development of living-wage jobs in community and environmental service.
 For example, environmental clean-up, recycling, sustainable agriculture and food production, sustainable forest management, repair and maintenance of public facilities, neighborhood-based public safety, aides in schools, libraries and childcare centers, and construction and renovation of energy-efficient housing.
 We oppose enterprise zone giveaways, which benefit corporations more than inner-city communities.
 It is clear that we cannot rely on the rich to regulate their profit-making excesses for the good of society through "trickle-down economics.
" We must take aggressive steps to restore a fair distribution of income.
 We support tax incentives for businesses that apply fair employee wage distribution standards, and income tax policies that restrict the accumulation of excessive individual wealth.
 Forcing welfare recipients to accept jobs that pay wages below a living wage drives wages down and exploits workers for private profit at public expense.
 We reject workfare as being a form of indentured servitude.
 Corporations receiving public subsidies must provide jobs that pay a living wage, observe basic workers' rights, and agree to affirmative action policies.
 Education   The Green Party supports equal access to high-quality education, and sharp increases in financial aid for college students.
 A great challenge facing the people of the United States is to educate ourselves to build a just, sustainable, humane and democratic future, and to become responsible and effective citizens of the local and global communities we share.
 Greens believe every child deserves a public education that fosters critical and holistic thought, and provides the breadth and depth of learning necessary to become an active citizen and a constructive member of our society.
 We do not believe our public school system, as it presently operates, helps us reach that goal.
 Today, Americas public school system faces a different set of challenges.
 For the first time in this countrys history, students of color represent the majority of the PK-12 public education student body.
 Additionally, now more than half of all school children are classified as low income.
 Even more critical is the fact that now nearly 35 percent of all public school students have some specific learning disability and are receiving special education services.
 Given these factors, in order for Americas schools to truly become effective in teaching our students to think critically and to respond to life challenges, districts, schools and teachers must develop a new consciousness toward students that includes cultural competency, the understanding of the impact of poverty on school performance, asset-based engagement and how to create stable, nurturing school environments that will help students thrive and succeed.
 Therefore, Greens work toward:   Dismantling white supremacy in our schools, represented in curricula, discipline, teacher recruitment and more, by seeking to end the school-to-jailhouse track   Free teachers from requirements to use exclusively Common Core Standards-aligned materials, which neglects the contributions and struggles of people of color.
 Teachers should be free to choose whichever materials are academically-challenging and culturally appropriate for their students.
 Strengthen cultural competency requirements for teachers.
 Provide robust professional development in cultural competency, and widen the scope of teacher preparation to include cultural competency training.
 End alternative teacher licensing initiatives, such as Teach for America, which recruit primarily white teachers and inject them into urban classrooms with as little as five weeks training and only a two-year commitment, creating great destabilization in school communities that need consistent leadership and community connections.
 Incentivize "grow your own teacher" programs in oppressed communities with targeted recruitment during high school, federal grants and loan forgiveness and mentoring.
 Invest more resources into recruiting fully bilingual school support staff, such as front-office and family resource personnel and counselors.
 Ensure school security personnel are trained for, and held accountable to, conflict resolution techniques and anti-bias training.
 Security personnel should also demonstrate cultural competency and refrain from enforcing white supremacist oppressive tactics.
 Recognize the impact of poverty on student achievement, which no amount of sanctions, standards, turnarounds, teacher targeting or privatization will fix.
 Implement strategies such as wraparound services and more to support students in poverty.
 Eradicate the vestiges of structural racism represented through police violence, incarceration, school suspension and dropout rates, inequitable school funding and use of schemes like "student-based budgeting," behavior policies based on "no excuses," "character education" and "grit," and school closures.
 The Green Party is strongly opposed to the dissolution of public schools and the privatization of education.
 We believe that the best educational experience is guaranteed by the democratic empowerment of organized students, their parents and communities along with organized teachers.
 We should challenge students with great works of literature, economics, philosophy, history, music, and the arts as regular academic subjects.
 We must stop disinvestment in education and instead put it at the top of our social and economic agenda.
 Too many of our teachers are overworked, underpaid, and starved of key materials.
 We do not think that schools should turn our children into servile students, employees, consumers or citizens.
 We believe it is very important to teach our children how to ask good questions.
 We also call attention to the results of a quarter century of corporate funding from the likes of the Bradley and Wal-Mart Family Foundations and a decade of No Child Left Behind and its repackaged new offspring, the Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA)a vast, well-endowed and lucrative sector which seeks to dismantle, privatize, or militarize public education and destroy teachers unions.
 Regimes of high-stakes standardized testing and the wholesale diversion of resources away from public schools are provoking crises for which the bipartisan corporate consensus recommends school closings, dissolution of entire school districts and replacement by unaccountable, profit-based charter schools.
 The Green Party is unalterably opposed to the dissolution of public schools and the privatization of education.
 Therefore, the Green Party advocates:   That with the failure of NCLB's testing mandate, recognize and uphold parents' right to opt their children out of any standardized test, instead of ESSA's weak permission of allowing states to pass such statutes.
 End the official bullying and threats from school and district officials when parents opt out.
 End all standardized testing and instead redirect the millions of funds allocated toward prep, materials, support, etc.
 to creating expanded access to music, arts, sciences and languages as mandatory, academic subjects.
 End all federal competitive grants like Race to the Top (RTTT) and instead equitably fund schools based on a priority of socioeconomic level.
 ESSA's passing the buck of "test and punish" to the states puts more authority in the hands of people with even less understanding of pedagogy and child development than even the US Department of Education.
 Students of color, English learners and students with disabilities used to be able to count on federal oversight of their basic rights in school.
 End ESSA's promotion of charter-friendly, unproven alternative teaching licensing and "credential mills" like Relay Graduate School of Education and others, that circumvent public oversight.
 The Green Party views learning as a lifelong and life-affirming process to which all people should have access.
 We cannot state more forcefully our belief that in learning, and openness to learning, we find the foundation of our Platform.
 We recommend the following actions:   Eliminate gross inequalities in school funding.
 Federal policy on education should act principally to provide equal access to a quality education.
 Provide free college tuition to all qualified students at public universities and vocational schools.
 Abolish all student and parent loans taken out to finance post-secondary and vocational education.
 Oppose the administration of public schools by private, for-profit entities.
 Increase funding for after-school and daycare programs.
 Promote a diverse set of educational opportunities, including multilingual education, continuing education, job retraining, distance learning, mentoring and apprenticeship/vocational programs.
 Build education programs based on autochthonous skills, crafts, art, music, permaculture, and history.
 Also present children of colonial heritage viable and sustainable ways of life of indigenous peoples worldwide.
 For students with disabilities, provide a free and appropriate education in the least restrictive environment (as inclusive as possible).
 Provide curriculum designed for specific disabilities, as well as inclusive training for ALL teachers.
 Improve transition programs for students with disabilities from ages 18-21.
 Give K-12 classroom teachers professional status and salaries commensurate with advanced education, training and responsibility.
 Teach non-violent conflict resolution and humane education at all levels of education.
 Implement and fully-fund restorative justice programs as an alternative to suspension and police referral.
 Provide age-appropriate education on gender, race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, and safer sex.
 Corporations should not be allowed to use the schools as vehicles for commercial advertising or corporate propaganda.
 Provide healthy school meals that are rich in vitamins, minerals, protein and fiber, and offer plant-based vegetarian options.
 Support Farm-to-School programs that provide food from local family farms and educational opportunities.
 Develop culturally-sensitive menus and provide opportunities for parents to assist in meal preparation.
 Ban the sale of soda pop and junk food in schools.
 Junk food is defined as food or beverages that are relatively high in saturated or trans fat, added sugars or salt, and relatively low in vitamins, minerals, protein and fiber.
 Oppose military and corporate control over the priorities and topics of university academic research.
 Expand opportunities for universal higher education and life-long learning.
 Include a vigorous and engrossing civics curriculum in later elementary and secondary schools, to teach students to be active citizens.
 Encourage parental responsibility by supporting parenting in culturally-sensitive ways and increasing opportunities for parents to be as involved as possible in their childrens education.
 Values start with parents and schools should not seek to de-program students from those values.
 Expand arts education and physical education opportunities at school.
 Recognize the viable alternative of home-based education and support working-class parents who wish to offer it to their children.
 Oppose efforts to restrict the teaching of scientific information and the portrayal of religious belief as fact.
 Provide adequate academic and vocational education and training to prisoners.
 Decrease the student-teacher ratio in classrooms and increase the number of counselors, nurses, librarians and social workers.
 Make all public education sites gun-free to provide a safe learning environment   Include self-defense skills in the physical education curriculum at elementary school level   Provide researched-based drug, tobacco, and alcohol abuse prevention, as well as evidence-based information about the true effect of recreational or medicinal substances such as cannabis on the developing brain.
 Include curricula focusing on civil rights history, actions, and advances, and how current law can be used to achieve personal civil rights.
 Teach all students about white supremacy and intersectionality.
 We urge that our nation amend its binding declaration with respect to the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the involvement of children in armed conflict to join the rest of the world in setting 18 as the absolute minimum age for military recruitment.
 No person should be permitted to sign away eight years of their life to the armed forces, without full written disclosure of what is expected of them and what they can expect in return from the government.
 We demand that the practice of deceiving prospective service recruits about the truth of their service contract be recognized as a fraudulent practice and sufficient grounds for revoking an enlistment contract.
 Current practices holding individuals legally to all the terms of their military service contract should also apply to the government.
 We demand an end to the militarization of our schools.
 JROTC programs are an expensive drain on our limited educational resources and a diversion from their important mission to prepare our young to assume their role in a peaceful tomorrow.
 ASVAB testing is being used to mine public school student bodies for data to support military recruiting.
 The Pentagons Recruitment Command is misdirecting public tax dollars on manipulative campaigns that prey on our young.
 We insist that local education authorities stand up to these destructive practices.
 Educate students in grade school and higher education with courses in the environmental sciences, with a focus on the hands-on practice of Conservation Agriculture, with organic, community farming/gardening, increased emphasis on energy conservation, exposure to industrialized food production through field trips and educational films (at an appropriate age), and other courses that include a comprehensive curriculum on climate change, biodiversity, and other planetary boundaries and environmental concerns.
 Focus on education through a general immersion in nature to understand, hands-on, the intricate dependence of humanity upon the natural world.
 The Arts   Freedom of artistic expression is a fundamental right and a key element in empowering communities, and in moving us toward sustainability and respect for diversity.
 Artists can create in ways that foster healthy, non-alienating relationships between people and their daily environments, communities, and the Earth.
 This can include both artists whose themes advocate compassion, nurturance, or cooperation; and artists whose creations unmask the often-obscure connections between various forms of violence, domination, and oppression, or effectively criticize aspects of the very community that supports their artistic activity.
 The arts can only perform their social function if they are completely free from outside control.
 The Green Party supports:       Alternative, community-based systems treating neither the artwork nor the artist as a commodity.
 Eliminating all laws that seek to restrict or censor artistic expression, including the withholding of government funds for political or moral content.
 Increased funding for the arts appropriate to their essential social role at local, state and federal levels of government.
 Community-funded programs employing local artists to enrich their communities through public art programs, including public performances, exhibitions, murals on public buildings, design or re-design of parks and public areas, storytelling and poetry reading, and publication.
 The establishment of non-profit public forums for local artists to display their talents and creations.
 Research, public dialogue, and trial experiments to develop alternative systems for the valuation and exchange of artworks and for the financial support of artists.
 Some examples include community subscriber support groups, artwork rental busts, cooperative support systems among artists, legal or financial incentives to donate to the arts or to donate artworks to public museums.
 Responsible choices of non-toxic, renewable, or recyclable materials.
 Funding sources not connected with social injustice or environmental destruction.
 Education programs in the community that will energize the creativity of every community member from the youngest to the oldest, including neglected groups such as teenagers, senior citizens, prisoners, immigrants, and drug addicts.
 These programs would provide materials and access to interested, qualified arts educators for every member of the community who demonstrates an interest.
 Funding and staffing to incorporate arts education into every school curriculum.
 We encourage local artists and the community to contribute time, experience, and resources to these efforts.
 Diversity in arts education in the schools including age-specific hands-on activities and appreciative theoretical approaches, exposure to the arts of various cultures and stylistic traditions, and experiences with a variety of media, techniques and contents.
 The integration of the arts and artistic teaching methods into other areas of the curriculum to promote a holistic perspective.
 Health Care   The Green Party supports single-payer universal health care and preventive care for all.
 We believe that health care is a right, not a privilege.
 Our current health care system lets tens of thousands of people die each year by excluding them from adequate care, while its exorbitant costs are crippling our economy.
 The United States is the only industrialized nation in the world without a national health care system.
 Under a universal, comprehensive, national single-payer health care system, the administrative waste of private insurance corporations would be redirected to patient care.
 If the United States were to shift to a system of universal coverage and a single payer plan, as in Canada and many European countries, the savings in administrative costs would be more than enough to offset the cost of additional care.
 Expenses for businesses currently providing coverage would be reduced, while state and local governments would pay less because they would receive reimbursement for services provided to the previously uninsured, and because public programs would cease to be the "dumping ground" for high-risk patients and those rejected by health maintenance organizations (HMOs) when they become disabled and unemployed.
 In addition, people would gain the peace of mind in knowing that they have health care they need.
 No longer would people have to worry about the prospect of financial ruin if they become seriously ill, are laid off their jobs, or are injured in an accident.
 The Green Party supports a wide range of health care services, including conventional medicine, as well as the teaching, funding and practice of complementary, integrative and licensed alternative health care approaches.
 Greens recognize that our own health is also intimately tied to the health of our communities and environment.
 To improve our own health, we must improve the quality of our air, water and food and the health of our workplaces, homes and schools.
 The Green Party unequivocally supports a woman's right to reproductive choice, no matter her marital status or age, and that contraception and safe, legal abortion procedures be available on demand and be included in all health insurance coverage in the U.
, as well as free of charge in any state where a woman's income falls below the poverty level.
 Women's Rights in this chapter]   We recommend the following actions:   1.
 Single-Payer Health Care   Enact a universal, comprehensive, national single-payer health plan that will provide the following with no increase in cost:       A publicly funded health care insurance program, administered at the state and local levels, with comprehensive lifetime benefits, including dental, vision, mental health care, substance abuse treatment, medication coverage, and hospice and long-term care;   Participation of all licensed and/or certified health providers, subject to standards of practice in their field, with the freedom of patients to choose the type of health care provider from a wide range of health care choices, and with decision-making in the hands of patients and their health providers, not insurance companies;   Portability of coverage regardless of geographical location or employment;   Cost controls via streamlined administration, national fee schedules, bulk purchases of drugs and medical equipment, coordination of capital expenditures and publicly negotiated prices of medications;   Primary and preventive care as priorities, including wellness education about diet, nutrition and exercise; holistic health; and medical marijuana.
 More comprehensive services for those who have special needs, including the mentally ill, the differently abled and those who are terminally ill;   A mental health care system that safeguards human dignity, respects individual autonomy, and protects informed consent;   Greatly reduced paperwork for both patients and providers;   Fair and full reimbursement to providers for their services;   Hospitals that can afford safe and adequate staffinglevels of registered nurses;   Establishment of national, state, and local health policy boards consisting of health consumers and providers to oversee and evaluate the performance of the system, ensure access to care, and help determine research priorities; and   Establishment of a National Health Trust Fund that would channel all current Federal payments for health care programs directly into the Fund, in addition to employees' health premium payments.
 AIDS / HIV   The Green Party calls for comprehensive, humane, and competent care of all people with HIV/AIDS.
 The AIDS epidemic has not had adequate public health management at all government levels.
 Drug corporations have a strong profit motive to encourage for medical management of those with HIV by using medication that keeps the virus from being detected in the blood.
 This means there are guaranteed sales of very expensive drugs.
 Rather than invest in research for a cure like they have done with Hepatitis C, the drug companies invest in drugs that manage a chronic illness.
 The Green Party believes that this failure to invest in research for a cure is because mainstream society has the belief that contracting HIV is self-inflicted by "sinful" or "illegal" behavior.
 The largest groups with HIV/AIDS in the USA are men who have sex with men, including gay, bisexual, and trans men, and men of color, particularly of African and Latinx descent.
 Persons who share needles are the next largest group of persons with HIV/AIDS in the USA.
 While HIV drug treatment regimens have saved lives, some people suffer from debilitating side effects where quality of life is poor.
 There is also the economic side effect due to the high cost of these life-saving medications.
 We recommend the following actions:       Increased public education in transmission prevention which includes funding for the purchase and distribution of condoms, gloves, dams, and needles & syringes.
 Increased funding for age appropriate comprehensive sex education that includes use of barriers for prevention of fluid/blood transmission.
 We support students having easy access to condoms, gloves, and dams in schools.
 Increased funding for research focusing on a cure in addition to chronic disease management.
 Creation of a repository for the latest peer reviewed theories, studies, and findings, and to facilitate sharing among research laboratories, schools and universities, medical centers, and public health facilities that would be accessible for common good rather than kept proprietary for profit.
 Funding for methods of peer education for sex workers and those who may share needles, and to supply them with condoms, dams, gloves, and needles & syringes.
 Educating incarcerated individuals in HIV transmission prevention and supplying them with condoms, dams, and gloves.
 Additionally, remove barriers to access of medicines for incarcerated individuals with HIV/AIDS, and Hepatitis C.
   Increased funding for educating the public about addiction and funding for treatment facilities for addicts, and for transitional housing to help with society re-entry.
 Education and funding for addiction harm reduction practices, including available needle exchange programs for those individuals with substance use problems who are not yet ready to enter treatment programs.
 Immediate increases in funding for programs that ensure all individuals with HIV/AIDS who want housing or treatment are able to obtain such promptly.
 No individuals with HIV should ever spend a single night on the streets or be turned away from treatment due to their economic status.
 We advocate for creating daily HIV medication distribution centers for individuals who are unable to manage the complex daily medication regimen without assistance.
 Increased funding for free, anonymous testing of people for the presence of HIV/AIDS.
 Full funding to ensure broad access to Pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) programs, which have been proven by researchers to minimize transmission of HIV and reduce public health costs by preventing the need for expensive, lifelong HIV treatment regimens.
 The Green Party calls for our governments to make every effort to negotiate fair and reasonable prices for associated drugs, rather than allowing manufacturers to extract excessive profits from these life-saving medications.
 Funding for outreach and treatment to address the particular circumstances and specific needs of the various communities affected by HIV/AIDS.
 More research into better methods of prevention of HIV infection.
 While we support condom use, better condoms are also required.
 We support more vaccine research as well as research on prevention methods such as microbicides.
 People must be provided the means and support to protect themselves from all sexually transmitted and blood & body fluid borne diseases.
 A repeal of all HIV criminalization laws and policies and release all prisoners imprisoned solely due to HIV status.
 Restore full federal health funding for persons living with HIV.
 Labor   The right to organize unions, bargain freely and strike when necessary is being destroyed by employers and their representatives in government.
 Today, nearly one out of ten workers involved in union organizing drives is illegally fired by employers who wage a campaign of fear, threats, and slick propaganda to keep workers from exercising a genuinely free choice.
 And as union membership falls, so do the wages of all working people, union and non-union alike.
 We support efforts to overcome these legal handicaps, especially in the South and Southwest where the laws are most hostile.
 We also must dedicate ourselves to fighting for a complete overhaul of this country's labor laws.
 The Green Party supports the irreducible right of working people, without hindrance, to form a union and to bargain collectively with their employer.
 This right was guaranteed under the National Labor Relations Act of 1935.
 We support the right of workers, without penalty, to inform other workers on the premises of a union being formed.
 It is imperative that employees enjoy workplace democracy, which includes the following:  The right to elect representatives to sit equally with management on the Board of Directors.
 The right to fair and democratic elections of their own union officers.
 Flexible working schedules so employees can arrange their own time to deal with personal and family concerns.
 All workers, temporary or permanent, employee or contractor, must be paid a living wage suitable for a single income, working full-time 30-35 hours per week [see Chapter IV, Section H , of this platform for more information].
 The federal minimum wage for all workers should be indexed to inflation and adjusted regularly to ensure all workers nationwide continue to receive a living wage.
 To ensure a livable income for all people, we support additional measures such as implementing a universal basic income [see Chapter IV, Section D , of this platform for more information].
 All workers must have health care coverage, at least half paid by employer, until the passage of universal health care.
 All workers must have unemployment insurance, workers' compensation, and access to a jobs search program when they are unemployed.
 Minimum pensions for all workers, fully vested and portable, that do not reduce social security benefits.
 Mediation as the first available solution to labormanagement disputes, with an agreed-upon time limit.
 New union members' right to submit a first contract to binding arbitration at the request of the union.
 Labor's first right to buy out a company that is for sale or is going bankrupt, or being outsourced to another state or another country.
 Requiring employers who purchase or merge with other companies to honor all existing collective bargaining agreements and contracts.
 Labor's right to stock ownership and oversight of the investment of its own funds in the company where it works.
 We support the enactment of living wage laws that apply to all workers.
 A major consequence of this law will be the lessening of the ever-widening gap between CEOs' income and workers' pay.
 Agricultural and other excluded workers must be covered by federal labor laws, except where existing state laws offer more protection.
 We encourage cooperative ownership and management of enterprises.
 We support day-care service offered at every workplace when feasible, or reasonably near-by when not feasible at the workplace.
 Management's ability to close its workplace and move to a lower-pay locale must be circumscribed to the degree that it protects the local workforce and their job security.
 We support the establishment of a 4-day work week with no cut in pay and at least one month of paid vacation per year for all workers.
 Employees, including employees of contractors, whose work responsibilities can be fulfilled from a home office (or other location external to the employers premises) should not be required to commute to the employers premises if they choose to work off site.
 Labor regulations should prohibit employers from penalizing workers who choose to work off site.
 This reform would encourage telecommuting and relieve urban traffic congestion, with a resulting reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
 Employees who choose to commute to the office would continue to be allowed to do so.
 The ever-widening gap between rich and poor is destructive of democracy and creates an uneven playing field for economic opportunity.
 Public welfare that depends on hand-outs from the corporate rich reduces democracy by that same amount.
 Every citizen must have the leverage necessary to become a productive member of the economy and the society in which we live.
 All workers have a right to a safe and humane working environment.
 A lack of adequate enforcement of Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) laws and/or insufficient standards put many workers at risk.
 We support the following safety policies:  Protect and enforce OSHA laws.
 We insist on adequate testing of equipment and funding of enforcement procedures.
 Employers have a responsibility to protect workers from those hazards.
 Legislate full funding for worker safety programs at both the state and federal levels.
 Insist on agricultural practices that don't endanger farm workers.
 Put agricultural practices under the jurisdiction of OSHA.
 We stand firmly opposed to privatization and contracting-out of public services.
 A government that works for us would provide critical goods and services that should not be run for profit.
 Criminal Justice   OUR POSITION   Reduce the prison population, invest in rehabilitation, and end the failed war on drugs.
 The United States has the highest incarceration and recidivism rates of industrialized countries, while our nation's criminal justice system in general is too often inhumane, ineffective, and prohibitively expensive.
 With less than five percent of the world's population, the United States locks up nearly a quarter of the world's prisoners.
 Our law enforcement priorities place too much emphasis on drug-related and petty, non-violent crimes, and not enough on prosecution of corporate, white collar, and environmental crime.
 The majority of prisoners are serving terms for non-violent, minor property and drug addiction crimes, or violations of their conditions of parole or probation, while the poor, the under-educated and various racial and ethnic minorities are over-represented in the prison population.
 The negative effects of imprisonment are far-reaching.
 Prisoners are isolated from their communities and often denied contact with the free world and the media.
 Access to educational and legal materials is in decline.
 Prison administrators wield total authority over their environments, diminishing procedural input from experts and censoring employee complaints.
 Our priorities must include efforts to prevent violent crime and address the legitimate needs of victims, while addressing the socio-economic root causes of crime and practicing policies that prevent recidivism.
 Greens oppose the increasingly widespread privatization of prisons.
 These prisons treat people as their product and provide far worse service than government-run prisons.
 Profits in privately run prisons are derived from understaffing, which severely reduces the acceptable care of inmates.
 Greens believe that greater, not lesser public input, oversight and control of prisons is the answer.
 Greens call for an end to the "war on drugs", legalization of drugs and for treating drug abuse as a health issue.
 The "war on drugs" has been an ill conceived program that has wasted billions of dollars misdirecting law enforcement resources away from apprehending and prosecuting violent criminals, while crowding our prisons with non-violent drug offenders and disproportionately criminalizing youth of color.
 Greens also call attention to the fact that more than forty percent of those 2.
3 million locked down come from America's black one-eighth.
 The Green Party recognizes that our nation's ostensibly color-blind systems of law enforcement and crime control, from police practices to prosecutorial prerogatives, to mandatory sentencing and zero-tolerance have effectively constituted an ubiquitous national policy of racially selective mass incarceration, a successor to Jim Crow as a means of social control, a policy that must be publicly discussed, widely recognized, and ultimately reversed.
 The nearly universal, though largely unspoken nature of this policy makes piecemeal reforms not accompanied by public discussion of the larger policy ineffective outside the context of a broad social movement.
 Alternatives to Incarceration       Encourage and support positive approaches to punishment that build hope, responsibility and a sense of belonging.
 Prisons should be the sentence of last resort, reserved for violent criminals.
 Those convicted of non-violent offenses should be handled by alternative, community-based programs including halfway houses, work-furlough, community service, electronic monitoring, restitution, and rehabilitation programs.
 Treat substance abuse as a medical problem, not a criminal problem.
 Free all non-violent incarcerated prisoners of the drug war.
 Provide treatment to parolees and probationers who fail a drug test instead of re-incarceration.
 Release prisoners with diagnosed mental disorders to secure mental health treatment centers.
 Ensure psychological and medical care and rehabilitation services for mentally ill prisoners.
 Release prisoners who are too old and/or infirm to pose a threat to society to less expensive, community-based facilities.
 Make reduction of recidivism a primary goal of parole.
 Treat parole as a time of reintegration into the community, not as a continuation of sentence.
 Provide community reentry programs for inmates before their release.
 Provide access to education, addiction and psychological treatment, job training, work and housing upon their release.
 Provide counseling and other services to the members of a parolee's family, to help them with the changes caused by the parolee's return.
 Prevent unwarranted search without reasonable cause to parolees and their homes.
 Increase funding for rape and domestic violence prevention and education programs.
 House violent and non-violent juvenile offenders separately.
 Continue the education of juveniles while in custody.
 Substantially decrease the number of juvenile's assigned to each judge and caseworker to oversee each juvenile's placement and progress in the juvenile justice system.
 Prison Conditions, Prisoner Treatment and Parolees           Ensure prison conditions are humane and sanitary, including but are limited to heat, light, exercise, clothing, nutrition, libraries, possessions, and personal safety.
 Ensure availability of psychological, drug, and medical treatment, including access to condoms and uninterrupted access to all prescribed medication.
 Minimize isolation of prisoners from staff and one another only as needed for safety.
 Make incarceration more community-based, including through increased visitor access by families.
 Establish and enforce prison policies that discourage racism, sexism, homophobia and rape.
 Require that each state prison system install a rehabilitation administrator with equal authority as the highest authority.
 Ensure that all prisoners have the opportunity to obtain a General Education Diploma (i.
 high school equivalency diploma) and higher education.
 Education has proven to reduce recidivism by 10%.
 Ensure the First Amendment rights of prisoners, including the right to communicate with journalists, write letters, publish their own writings, and become legal experts on their own cases.
 Provide incarcerated individuals the right to vote by absentee ballot in the district of their domicile, and the right to vote during parole.
 Restore the right to hold public office to felons who have completed their prison sentence.
 Conduct racial and ethnic disparity impact studies for new and existing categories of offenses.
 Criminal Justice Reform       Abolish the death penalty.
 Establish and fund programs to strengthen self-help and community action through neighborhood centers that provide legal aid, alternative dispute-resolution practices, mediated restitution, community team policing, and access to local crisis/assault care shelters.
 Establish elected or appointed independent civilian re-view boards with subpoena power to investigate complaints about prison guard and community police behavior.
 Sharply restrict police use of weapons and restraining techniques such as pepper spray, stun belts, tasers and choke holds.
 Prohibit property forfeiture and denial of due process for unconvicted suspects.
 Establish freedom on bail as a right of all defendants charged with non-violent crimes.
 Incorporate mental health and social services in bail agreements.
 Increase compensation for jurors and provide childcare for those serving jury duty.
 Ensure the opportunity for victims to make victim-impact statements.
 Thoughtful, carefully considered gun control such as is contained in the Brady Bill (1993).
 Eliminate the gun show loophole that permits sale of weapons without background checks.
 Extend background checks to all private sales of firearms.
 End the War on Drugs         End the "war on drugs.
" Redirect funds presently budgeted for the "war on drugs" toward expanded research, education, counseling and treatment.
 Amend the Controlled Substances Act to reflect that drug use in itself is not a crime, and that persons living in the United States arrested for using drugs should not be incarcerated with those who have committed victim oriented crimes.
 Legalize possession, sale, and cultivation of cannabis/marijuana.
 Strike from the record prior felony convictions for marijuana possession, sale, or cultivation.
 Grant amnesty and release from confinement without any further parole or probation, those who have been incarcerated for the use, sale, or cultivation of marijuana in federal and state prisons and in county/city jails, and who otherwise are without convictions for victim oriented crimes, or who do not require treatment for abuse of hard drugs.
 Provide the option for drug treatment to those leaving confinement.
 Implement a step-by-step program to decriminalize all drugs in the United States.
 Legalize psilocybin mushrooms and other entheogenic substances that have been found to have therapeutic benefits and low medical risks for responsible adult users.
 Police Accountability   Due to current conditions when it comes to policing the cities and people, police officers are the 6th leading cause of death for young men in America.
 More commonly, the greatest lives that are at stake are those of our black, brown, LGBTQIA?+ and disabled, including those with mental health issues when it comes to crimes against persons at the hands of the police.
 In accordance we recommend the following actions:         Police Require all police officers to carry professional liability insurance as a requirement to working on the police force.
 That the insurance will act as a mechanism by which we can have officers with histories of brutality and misconduct removed from duty, thereby keeping that person from committing crimes under the protection of the police department; this functions through the insurance company, which will increase premiums and eventually determine that rogue officers are uninsurable.
 Serve as a deterrent to officers taking actions that could result in a complaint against them, as this could cause a premium increase for the officer.
 Prevent the taxpayer from having to foot the bill for police brutality cases, which cost taxpayers millions of dollars.
 Establish a national database to record excessive force complaints, to be used in hiring decisions of police officers.
 Establish community control of police through elected local police oversight boards with subpoena power to investigate complaints about police behavior and hold offending officers accountable.
 These boards will be empowered to hire and fire police officers and chiefs.
 Population   Humans have a unique responsibility for stewardship of the Earth.
 No species, especially on the upper end of the food chain, can have unchecked exponential growth without depleting the Earth's carrying capacity human population expands at the expense of other species.
 Limiting the discussion to population numbers and birthrates diverts attention from over-consumption in the industrial world and historic patterns of exploitation of developing countries.
 Consumption-oriented lifestyles that have evolved in the industrial world have resulted in a minority of people consuming a majority of resources.
 This is as significant a threat to the Earth's carrying capacity as the high birth rates in low-consumption countries.
 Current global demographics demonstrate that economic wellbeing promotes low birthrates.
 Any discussion of population must also be a discussion of women throughout the world.
 There is documented evidence that the economic and social status of women is a primary factor in birthrates  when women have control over their lives, birthrates decrease.
 Also, a major barrier to the improvement of women's reproductive health is a lack of shared responsibility between men and women in family planning.
 A combination of male attitudes and cultural traditions have resulted in most men being under-educated and uninvolved in the planning of their families.
 Globally, human population is increasing while food production has leveled off.
 When population increases faster than the economy grows, the disparity between rich and poor also increases.
 Higher human consumption rates and populations increase the pressure on the environment in every ecological problem area.
 Those living in the industrialized world must end the habits of waste and over-consumption that place as much stress on the environment as does population growth in developing nations.
 We must remove the political and economic barriers that prevent women around the world from having all the resources necessary to become skilled family planners.
 Funds must be allocated for expanded scientific research into safer and more effective birth control techniques and devices.
 We demand better-than-adequate health care for women and children  especially prenatal care.
 Women's Rights in this chapter]   There must be access to free birth control devices, information counseling, and clinics to all who desire them.
 We call for implementation of family planning education for both genders in all levels of the state school system.
 Women's Rights in this chapter]   We must promote new traditions and images of men becoming fully involved in all aspects of the family planning process          J.
 Housing and Homelessness   People have a right to a home and to be secure in their tenancy.
 However the supply of affordable housing is not meeting the need, while in an era of increasing deregulation, many tenants are losing important legal protections.
 Instead of enacting zoning laws to increase affordable housing, the trend has too often been to increase the proportion of land zoned for commercial property at the expense of residential property.
 Instead of providing funding to increase affordable housing, amount of funds dedicated to this purpose is decreasing.
 At the same time, rent control and tenant eviction protections do not exist in most jurisdictions, and where they do, they are often inadequate and under attack.
 State governments continue to weaken or preempt local rent control laws, while landlords who violate housing code requirements by failing to keep their property in habitable condition, are often tolerated or given lenient penalties.
 Housing discrimination also remains rampant against people of color, immigrants, disabled, single people, gays and lesbians, and families with children.
 Compounding these concerns is the long-term stagnation of workers' real wages, which further exacerbates the housing availability and affordability crisis.
 At the same time those who are not housed  for example, the homeless  are often hounded, threatened, and often cannot obtain badly needed services.
 While increased affordable housing can help alleviate the problem of homelessness, the homeless have additional needs that go far beyond housing.
 The Green Party recommends the following actions:   Renters/Tenants' Rights   Guarantee tenant's rights, including: freedom from harassment and evictions without just cause; well-enforced habitability standards; strong anti-discrimination enforcement, including family protection laws and domestic partnerships; continuation of established services and amenities; the right to reasonable guest visitation; maintenance of roommate privileges; and the right to communicate with other tenants about conditions or circumstances in their buildings.
 Enact and enforce strong penalties for landlords who violate these rights.
 Fund public and non-profit tenant-related counseling and legal assistance for renters.
 Rent Control   Defend and expand cities' right to enact local rent control laws, including vacancy control/recontrol, that fit the needs of their communities.
 Provide for publicly elected Rent Control/Stabilization Boards for communities with local rent control laws.
 Preserve and Increase Affordable Housing Supply   Defend and expand cities' ability to enact affordable housing inclusionary ordinances that fit the needs of their communities, so that the private sector will contribute its share of affordable housing construction.
 Provide funding for publicly built affordable housing, including funding for non-profit corporations that build affordable housing.
 Enact zoning to promote mixed-use development along transit corridors to locate housing next to jobs and public transportation.
 Lower parking requirements for new multi-family development to lower cost of construction to enable greater affordability.
 Regulate and limit the legal conversion of existing affordable housing into hotels, motels and short-term vacation rentals and establish and enforce laws to prevent illegal conversions.
 Fair Housing   Enforce and strengthen the federal Fair Housing Act and other federal and state fair-housing laws that prohibit discrimination based on race, color, religion, gender, sexual orientation, disability, familial status and national origin.
 Increase funding to assist people who believe they have been victims of housing discrimination and support and fund fair housing enforcement and education across the nation.
 Consider establishment of an independent Fair Housing Enforcement Agency outside of the U.
 Department of Housing and Urban Development in order to improve enforcement and restore public confidence in the implementation of federal fair housing policies.
 Require that communities that receive federal housing funds provide evidence that their housing policies are affirmatively furthering fair housing.
 Amend the federal Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher Program to increase access of eligible families to high opportunity communities, by including higher rents where necessary, improving administrative portability of vouchers across jurisdictional lines, re-establishing housing mobility programs to assist voucher-holders seeking to move to higher opportunity areas, creating strong incentives and performance goals for administering agencies, and providing incentives to recruit new landlords into the program.
 Amend the Low Income Housing Tax Credit program to include fair housing requirements for site selection, affirmative marketing, and reporting of racial/ ethnic data to ensure that this program works to further fair housing goals.
 Ensure that fair housing principles are emphasized in programs addressing the mortgage and financial crisis.
 Revive the President's Fair Housing Council to coordinate federal activities across agencies to support fair housing.
 Measures to Address Homelessness   Prevent homelessness before it occurs by addressing its structural causes, through raising the income floor under the working poor, creating living-wage jobs, providing job training and education that will enable low-wage workers to obtain living-wage jobs, preserving and expanding affordable housing, providing affordable health care, ensuring sufficient mental health care and substance abuse services, availability of healthy food and providing effective, holistic assistance that connects vulnerable individuals with sources of income and essential services.
 Recognize that there are multiple, related and individualized causes of homelessness, and develop solutions that address them.
 Maintain and expand the social services necessary to address the varied aspects of homelessness.
 Move people rapidly into stable living arrangements, where they will not be under constant threat of displacement or worrying about untreated health problems or other personal difficulties.
 Support and encourage service integration at all levels and move beyond the shelter approach to provide supportive housing that combines accommodation and an array of necessary services, to transition people out of homelessness.
 Responding creatively to provide additional transitional housing through master leasing of private apartment blocks; purchase for-profit single room occupancy hotels; and where feasible, conversion of short-term emergency shelter facilities into permanent supportive housing.
 Provide the resources necessary to advocate, develop and monitor discharge practices of local hospitals, jails and foster care through a zero-tolerance policy for discharging people to the streets.
 Set aside a share of public-sector jobs for homeless people who are able to work.
 Ensure that public agencies devoted to job creation are active in providing job training and work opportunities for homeless residents.
 Ensure that public assistance is enough to allow recipients to afford a roof over their head.
 Help homeless who are entitled to federal Social Security benefits and veterans' disability payments to obtain them.
 Involve homeless people in decision-making about short- and long-term solutions to homelessness.
 Educate homeless people about their right to vote.
 Encourage voter registration and voter participation among homeless people.
 Do you like this page? Tweet                         Agriculture and Food Systems     Chemicalized and industrialized corporate agribusiness is driving family farmers off the land, rural America into depression, and ecosystems to collapse while failing to end hunger and malnutrition.
 This corporate agribusiness model is also depleting water aquifers and soils and driving insects to extinction, all leading to the collapse of ecosystems and food production itself.
 The Wall Street parties, funded by agribusiness giants, are fully complicit in the degradation of our agriculture and food systems for corporate profit.
 We need a rural reconstruction program that revitalizes agriculture and reintegrates town and country, with a just transition to organic agriculture and green manufacturing.
 We support sustainable agroecological practices and Food Sovereignty - the right of peoples to healthy and culturally appropriate food produced through ecologically sound and sustainable methods, and their right to define their own food and agriculture systems.
 We must transition to sustainable agriculture and food systems that will ensure environmental health, economic profitability for working farmers, and social and economic equity.
 A Jill Stein administration will:   Socialize big agribusiness and dismantle the corporate oligopolies that control the farm input industry (seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, machinery) and the food and fiber processing industry into cooperatives and public enterprises democratically owned by and serving consumers and working farmers  Provide technical and financial assistance for regenerative organic agriculture, permaculture, and sustainable forestry  Increase investments in urban food systems to increase access to nutritious foods while also fostering local and regional circular agro-economies  Support the use of natural systems to absorb carbon  Democratize food production*  Rapidly phase out the use of biocides, chemical fertilizers and corporate farms  Ensure parity pricing and supply management programs that guarantee working farmers a decent income above production costs  Mandate living wages and fair labor standards for farmworkers and other food workers  Support land reform and a new homesteading program to give new farmers access to land and farming resources  Support diversified green manufacturing in rural towns based on biodegradable agricultural feedstocks  Ban pesticides, herbicides, neonicotinoids, and all other known carcinogens or neurotoxins from public use  Protect public lands, water supplies, biodiversity, parks and green spaces  Phase out plastics as much as possible, starting with single-use plastics  Use the Precautionary Principle to fully investigate all new products, substances, and technologies before widespread introduction  Ensure justice for Black farmers  Codify Rights of Nature    We do not inherit the Earth from our ancestors, we borrow it from our children.
 -Chief Seattle        Climate and Energy     Declare a climate emergency utilizing presidential powers associated with the National Emergencies Act, Defense Production Act, and the Stafford Act, and issue executive actions to expedite national and international climate action.
 This would release $650 billion per year to support the manufacture of renewable energy and clean transportation technology, jump-starting the Green New Deal by generating millions of good-paying union jobs that green the economy - while improving the health of workers, ecosystems and communities.
 It also enables the reinstatement of the crude oil export ban overturned in 2015, comparable to closing 42 coal plants.
 It also enables suspension of the operations of all offshore leases and reduces fossil fuel exports, imports and investments in overseas fossil fuel projects.
 Create an Office of Climate Mobilization to coordinate policy changes and other needed interventions to eliminate greenhouse gas emissions and ultimately achieve climate justice  Achieve 100% clean renewable energy and zero-to-negative carbon emissions by no later than 2035  Ensure all climate solutions are global in scope  Fund full climate reparations to developing nations as part of a Global Green New Deal  Reduce the size and budget of the military, as hyper-militarized foreign policy and military-dependent domestic economy are major contributors to the climate emergency, while also ensuring the military transitions to green energy  Codify and implement the 17 Principles of Environmental Justice and require all federal agencies to be trained in, and implement the Jemez Principles for Democratic Organizing   Ensure a Just Transition for workers shifting from the fossil fuel and other extractive and polluting industries to alternative work of their choosing  End all forms of subsidies to the fossil fuel industry  Prioritize disadvantaged and other environmental justice communities with 60 percent of green investments and climate justice projects  Take the energy industry into public ownership using a democratic federated structure, with municipal and regional utilities  Take all railroad systems into democratic public ownership, including freight, commuter, and high-speed rail  Build an electrified coast to coast high-speed rail and local Solutionary Rail   Provide clean baseload power using responsibly sourced energy storage technologies that capture renewable energy surpluses  Fully fund and strengthen the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of the Interior and superfund site cleanup  Support a Constitutional Green amendment to guarantee the right of all people to clean air, land, and water  Invest in renewable energy infrastructure across the nation, including wind, solar, tidal, geothermal, battery and energy storage, and green hydrogen for limited uses where appropriate  Build a nationwide, publicly-owned smart electricity grid  Ban all forms of fracking, mountaintop removal, tar sands mining, and new fossil fuel infrastructure  Establish a moratorium on funding, constructing, and operating false climate solutions including carbon capture and sequestration, carbon offsets, cap and trade, biofuels, hydrogen combustion, renewable natural gas, waste incineration, and other forms of geoengineering  Phase out nuclear power, a dirty, dangerous, expensive, and uninsurable unneeded technology, and ensure no new nuclear energy facilities are constructed  Incentivize circular economies and zero-waste manufacturing  Invest in geothermal energy infrastructure  Prioritize energy efficiency and conservation, require new buildings to demonstrate zero emissions by 2035 and retrofit existing buildings as part of a larger plan to phase out all existing gas hookups  Subsidize installation of heat pumps to replace fossil fuels for heating and cooling  Expand and transform the American Climate Corps into a public agency that employs millions for ecosystem restoration, climate damage mitigation, and renewable energy development  Rescind toxic provisions of the Inflation Reduction Act including those that provide subsidies, direct payments, and other forms of financial assistance to the fossil fuel industry, and provisions to fast-track the Mountain Valley Pipeline  Rescind permits for the Line 3, Line 5, and Dakota Access Pipelines, and implement an immediate and permanent ban on all Liquefied Natural Gas exports and infrastructure projects  Establish a Federal commission to deliver justice for residents of Cancer Alley, including recompense for all residents impacted by decades of environmental racism  Address the crisis of contaminated water supplies with national efforts to remove lead, PFAS, and other toxins from our water         Democracy     Our democracy is on life support.
 Belief in our political system is at historic lows and the number of Americans who feel that neither establishment party represents them is at a record high.
 Researchers have found that todays US government is an oligarchy where policies are determined not by the will of the people but by the demands of corporate elites.
 The Wall Street parties have systematically concentrated power in the hands of their wealthy donors, locking out the people from our rightful place at the decision-making table.
 Full and meaningful participation in democracy is a human right.
 We need to revive our democracy with a full spectrum of reforms to empower the people, including real choice on the ballot - because without freedom of choice in elections, there is no democracy.
 A Jill Stein administration will:   Replace the exclusionary two-corporate-party system with an inclusive multi-party democracy through ranked-choice voting and proportional representation  Implement Ranked-Choice Voting for all elections nationwide  Implement proportional representation for all legislative elections  Work to overturn Citizens United and Buckley v.
 Valeo and abolish corporate personhood by Constitutional Amendment  Institute full public financing of elections.
 Get the corrupting influence of private money out of politics and put the people back in.
 Abolish the Electoral College, and elect the president via national popular vote using ranked-choice voting  Support a modern Voting Rights Act, including non-partisan redistricting commissions and same-day voter registration nationwide  Restore the Preclearance provision of the Voting Rights Act  Ensure a Constitutional right to vote and restore voting rights to all felons  Pass Automatic Voter Registration (AVR) nationwide  Make Election Day a federal holiday  Expand polling locations and make free vote-by-mail an option for all elections, and expand polling locations  End all discriminatory voting laws and the purging of voting rolls; repeal Shelby County v Holder   Allow those who are under supervision or incarcerated to vote in elections, and be counted in the districts they resided in before incarceration  Eliminate gerrymandering by enacting proportional representation  Repeal discriminatory, anti-democratic ballot access restrictions designed by the establishment parties to suppress competition  Expand initiative, referendum, and recall powers to every state and nationally  Ensure open debates on public channels including all ballot-qualified candidates  Provide free public airtime for all ballot-qualified candidates  Oppose censorship by both the government and big tech corporations, and defend press freedom by applying antitrust laws to media conglomerates  Expand Freedom of Information laws and whistleblower protections  Protect the free Internet and net neutrality  Safeguard election integrity with hand-counted paper ballots and routine post-election audits  Lower the voting age to 16  Grant immediate statehood for the District of Columbia  Ensure self-determination for Puerto Rico and other colonial territories still under US rule  Replace partisan oversight of elections and the presidential debates with independent, non-partisan election commissions  Increase the number of Supreme Court justices from 9 to 18, with 18-year term limits staggered so that one seat opens per year  Require a supermajority of  of the Supreme Court for judicial review of federal laws  Enact a binding code of ethics for all judges, including Supreme Court justices  Prohibit lobbying of any kind by former members of Congress.
 Ban stock trading by legislators  Ban government contractors from donating to political campaigns  Prohibit Congress from giving themselves any benefits they do not give to the people  Support and fund participatory budgeting projects to engage the public in policy decisions  Create a Federal Department of Equity to ensure that design and implementation of all policies (including climate policies) are equitable, as opposed to the historic victimization of poorer and marginalized communities.
 There is nothing which I dread so much as a division of the republic into two great parties, each arranged under its leader, and concerting measures in opposition to each other.
 This, in my humble apprehension, is to be dreaded as the greatest political evil under our Constitution.
 -John Adams        Foreign Policy and Demilitarization     The bipartisan endless war machine enriches military contractors, lobbyists, and politicians, while it fuels devastation around the world and impoverishes our own people.
 The Pentagon budget consumes over half of the discretionary federal budget, and real US military spending is over $1 trillion dollars per year.
 The military-industrial complex, aided by its accomplices in both war parties, media, intelligence agencies, and beyond, has become a global empire that is profoundly destructive around the world and here at home.
 Everyone has a human right to live in peace and dignity, free from violence and oppression.
 We must end the endless wars and create a new foreign policy based on diplomacy, international law, and human rights to lead the way to a new era of peace and cooperation.
 A Jill Stein administration will:   Establish a foreign policy based on diplomacy, international law, and human rights  End existing wars, military actions, proxy wars and secret wars  Cut military spending by 50-75% and ensure a just transition that replaces military jobs with Green New Deal jobs  Invest the peace dividend in a Global Green New Deal to prevent climate collapse, and build toward universal access to basic human needs for food, clean water and sanitation, education, and health care for every human being on Earth  Close the vast majority of the 700+ foreign US military bases  Stop U.
 support and arms sales to human rights abusers  Lead on global nuclear disarmament  End unilateral economic sanctions that primarily harm civilian populations  Remove war powers from the president and restore Congress sole power to declare war  Disband NATO and replace it with a modern, inclusive security framework that respects the security interests of all nations and people  Demand an immediate ceasefire in Israel and Palestine, an end to the blockade of Gaza, immediate humanitarian and medical relief, and release of hostages and political prisoners  Immediately end all military aid to Israel and adopt sanctions until Israel complies with international law to put an end to decades of violence, illegal occupation, displacement, dispossession, apartheid, and ethnic cleansing  End the longstanding US practice of vetoing UN Security Council resolutions to hold Israel accountable to international law  Move to end the UN Security Council to ensure the UN is a true democratic body  Remove U.
 troops from Iraq and Syria  Stop fueling the war between Russia and Ukraine and lead on negotiating a peaceful end  End the embargo of Cuba and normalize relations  End sanctions on Cuba, Nicaragua and Venezuela that amount to collective punishment of civilian populations  End US interventionist policies that drive people to become migrant refugees  End the failed drug wars and stop regime change attempts against foreign governments  Ban the use of killer drones, robots, and artificial intelligence  Close the Guantanamo Bay detention camp  Ensure family-supporting wages and benefits for military service members  Fully fund veterans programs and benefits, including healthcare, mental health, housing, and job training, for a transition to civilian life  Protect the rights of service members, including conscientious objectors    A nation that continues year after year to spend more money on military defense than on programs of social uplift is approaching spiritual death.
        Healthcare     Our healthcare system is in crisis.
 The United States spends more on healthcare than any other high-income country but has worse health outcomes, including the lowest life expectancy at birth and the highest rate of people with multiple chronic diseases.
 25 million people were uninsured in the US in 2023.
 Many of those who are insured still cant afford healthcare due to huge out-of-pocket costs.
 Researchers estimate this lack of adequate healthcare led to over 330,000 excess deaths from Covid-19.
 The Wall Street parties are funded by the insurance industry, the pharmaceutical industry, and other big healthcare profiteers to perpetuate this failed system that puts profits over people.
 We need a universal healthcare system that is equitable, comprehensive, free at point of service, and accessible to every single person in the US.
 A Jill Stein administration will:   Immediately implement National Improved Medicare for All as a precursor to establishing a UK-style National Healthcare Service which will replace private hospital, private medical practice, and private medical insurance with a publicly-owned, democratically controlled healthcare service that will guarantee healthcare as a human right to everyone in the United States  Cancel all medical debt  Advance reproductive rights and codify Roe v.
 healthcare system operates with full protection, respect and inclusion of human rights for all, including women and 2SLGBTQIA+ people, people with disabilities, Black, Indigenous, and people of color  Restore public trust in the governments medical agencies and institutions by enforcing audits, transparency and oversight in their internal processes  Restore confidence in the FDA, CDC and other regulatory boards by 1) closing the revolving door between corporations and regulatory boards and 2) getting corrupting big money out of politics by adopting public financing of elections.
 Expand public funding - and phase out private/corporate funding - of medical and pharmaceutical research, conducted in public health agencies, public universities and medical schools  Ban patents where the research and development has been paid for by taxpayers via public colleges, the NIH, the CDC and other governmental entities  Restore funding to all medical governmental agencies including Health and Human Services (HHS), the National Institute of Health (NIH), and the Center for Disease Control (CDC)  Take the pharmaceutical industry into public ownership and democratic control.
 Big pharma has failed to serve the public interest in an industry awash in private profit as it gouged consumers with monopolistic pricing in a business model centered on addictive opioids and patent-protected medicines.
 Its time to ensure the production of life-saving medicines that millions rely on with their production as public goods.
 Eliminate healthcare inequities and gaps in all disadvantaged communities by investing in local clinics and community hospitals  Establish a Federal Community Care Agency to provide community-based support, long-term in-home and in-community care, and visitation care to seniors and to people with disabilities  Ensure fair compensation for home caregivers  Guarantee long-term care for all patients in their home and community.
 Prohibit the keeping of peoples possessions by assisted living facilities after death  Eliminate Electronic Visit Verification (EVV) and other burdensome and discriminatory compliance requirements and enact protections against healthcare surveillance  Offer responsible and transparent end-of-life care to those who want it  Respect bodily autonomy and personal freedom and choice in medical treatments, including the right to dignified assisted death  Fund and support research and development of treatment for rare diseases  Federal legalization and funding of cannabis medicinal research  Launch an urgent national program to rebuild the U.
 epidemic/pandemic response  Review and update the 2006 Pandemic Preparedness Act (last updated prior to COVID in 2019) to ensure U.
 Ban private investment in CDC healthcare projects in order to restore public trust  Strengthen the infrastructure for accelerated emergency distribution of information, medications, vaccines, and treatments  Fund and provide high-quality personal protective equipment such as N-95 type masks and all diagnostic testing (including viral load testing) free at local pharmacies  Mandate and provide funding for high-quality air filtration code improvements for all public transportation, public buildings, schools and businesses  Restore OSHA-supported airborne protections for healthcare workers  Establish policies that will eliminate SARS-CoV-2 transmission in schools, healthcare facilities, and on public transportation  Further study the Novavax protein-based COVID-19 vaccine to determine safety and efficacy for children under 12; remove restrictions if findings allow     Address Long COVID  COVID-19 likely increased the disabled population in the United States by over 1.
 As of August 2022, some 16 million Americans were affected by long Covid, with 2 to 4 million out of work due to the condition.
 Long Covid causes both cognitive and physical impairments and can develop after the initial illness, with each subsequent infection increasing the risk of developing it.
 Ensure those affected by long Covid are protected in their workplace, and their needs for housing, healthcare, and economic security are met  Fully fund research into the causes, prevention and treatment of long COVID      It is health that is real wealth and not pieces of gold and silver.
  Mahatma Gandhi        Housing     There is a housing crisis across the United States.
 Over 600,000 people were experiencing homelessness in 2023, a record high.
 Rental and housing costs have skyrocketed in recent years.
 Corporations are buying up land and housing, while developers prioritize luxury housing unaffordable to most people.
 The Wall Street parties and the developers that fund them have completely failed to meet our housing needs.
 We need to end homelessness, support tenants and homebuyers, and massively invest in public housing to provide high-quality, affordable homes for all.
 A Jill Stein administration will:   End homelessness and housing insecurity with a Homes Guarantee  Nationally adopt Housing First practices  Fund social housing as part of the Real Green New Deal to build at least 15 million green, union-built, publicly-owned homes over the next 10 years  Support a Universal Tenant's Bill of Rights  Direct the Department of Labor to assist with the establishment of a National Tenants Union  Implement universal rent control and a prohibition on excessive rental deposits  Eliminate credit checks from rental applications  Impose taxes on unoccupied homes (vacancy tax) and investment rental homestay properties to curb speculation  Expand House Choice Initiatives, and provide full funding to all existing project-based rental assistance contracts  Repeal the Faircloth Amendment so that the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) can build public housing again  Prohibit predatory lending, require clearly listed mortgage costs and risks, and no fine print  Expand HUD and US Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development Programs for first-time home buyers, with down-payment assistance, direct guaranteed loans, and pre-purchase housing counseling  Reinvigorate federal housing programs that build publicly-owned housing for families, for the elderly, and for people with disabilities  Expand and protect the homeowner mortgage interest benefit, and eliminate the second home and yacht loopholes         Immigration     Immigrants rights are human rights.
 For hundreds of years immigrants have contributed immensely to the United States despite facing constant exploitation, discrimination, xenophobia and scapegoating.
 For decades, US foreign policies of war, intervention, and the war on drugs have driven many immigrants to leave their homes under duress to arrive here in dire need.
 The Wall Street parties and their wealthy backers use immigrants as essential labor, while denying them the human rights and dignity that everyone deserves.
 Its time to completely overhaul this broken and abusive immigration system, as well as the unjust policies driving people to leave their homes.
 We need a comprehensive immigration policy and properly funded institutions to ensure a timely, ethical, transparent, and dignified path to citizenship for immigrants, asylum seekers, and refugees.
 Border policy should move away from detention and enforcement response toward humane and effective asylum processing.
 This includes full support and funding for coordinated civil society response including social and legal service providers.
 Instead of jailing migrants and asylum seekers, we will create non-custodial, humanitarian reception centers at the border.
 Migrants should be processed rapidly to screen for significant criminal records.
 Once processed, migrants should have papers to begin work immediately, making them an invaluable resource for communities.
 A Jill Stein administration will:   Vastly reduce the tide of migration by ending the crises driving people to migrate in the first place - ending US wars and military interventions (250 in the past 30 years, per the Congressional Research Service), reducing climate migration through an emergency Green New Deal and eliminating fossil fuel emissions within a decade; ending US economic sanctions driving migration from Cuba, Venezuela and Nicaragua; legalizing marijuana in the US and supporting legalization in Latin America to undercut drug cartels whose violence is a major driver of migration.
 Abolish Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), and establish an Office of Citizenship, Refugees, and Immigration Services under the Department of Labor.
 Redirect all ICE funding to processing centers that provide immigrants and refugees with resources for housing, work, and healthcare upon arrival  Prosecute all ICE and Customs and Border Protection (CBP) agents who have committed human rights violations  Repeal the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act   Repeal the Anti-Terrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act   Grant amnesty to every undocumented person in the United States, and implement a path to citizenship with expediency  Provide whistleblower visas for immigrants who report labor violations or exploitative work conditions  Expand refugee programs and improve the housing conditions for all refugees during resettlement  Remove stringent requirements for linguistic assimilation and employment, and expand mental health services for refugees  Expand the number of visas available to immigrants  Greatly increase humanitarian aid to struggling Latin American economies, especially for countries that have been devastated by U.
 intervention  End US sanctions in general, which are illegal in any event.
 They should most immediately be ended where they devastate economies in Latin America and fuel immigration, as in Cuba and Venezuela  End the War on Drugs  Take immediate action to locate separated children and reunite them with their families  Direct the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and provide them resources to adjudicate visa petitions within 30 days, instead of the current 2 years or more, to shorten the duration of Family Separation for legal immigrants and citizens  Fully staff and fund immigration courts  Hire more asylum officers and provide exclusive jurisdiction to adjudicate asylum cases  Ensure all immigration judges have civil service protection  Ensure that due process and constitutional protections are available to undocumented immigrants when it comes to deportation issues  Repeal section 212(a)(9)(B)(ii) of the Immigration and Nationality Act concerning Accruing Unlawful Presence  Support DACA by updating the registration date of the 1929 Registry Act to 1/1/2022, and restoring Section 245(i) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, which expired in April 2001.
 This will allow people who have approved petitions to apply for their Green Card upon payment of a fine for the filing fee.
 Reduce the record number of detainees currently under DHS and U.
 Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) control.
 ~ no one puts their children in a boat, unless the water is safer than the land Warsan Shire, Home        Labor     The Wall Street parties have rigged the economy against working people.
 Over 60% of adults in the US are now living paycheck to paycheck.
 For 50 years, real wages have stagnated while worker productivity and corporate profits have soared.
 Inflation fueled by corporate profiteering has driven up the cost of living, eating away at the modest wage gains working people have won.
 We need a government that works for working people, not elite wealthy donors.
 Its time to restore and expand workers rights; support unions, cooperatives and worker ownership; and ensure that working people enjoy the full fruits of their labor.
 A Jill Stein administration will:   Pass a $25 minimum wage, indexed to cost inflation and productivity growth, whichever is higher, with special consideration for geographic locations where cost of living greatly exceeds other areas  Guaranteed Livable Income above poverty  Guarantee housing as a human right  Implement universal rent control  Increase federal support for worker-owned cooperatives  Expand and defend workers right to unionize to include domestic, agricultural, and so-called gig workers  Ensure worker representation on corporate boards (co-determination) at 50%  Give voting rights in pension funds to the workers  Repeal the Taft-Hartley Act and end the "right-to-work for less" laws  Federalize workers' compensation to standardize and ensure full funding for workers comp  Close the pay gap and end wage discrimination based on race, gender, or other factors  Pass a Federal jobs guarantee to end unemployment  Pass the Domestic Workers Bill of Rights  Pass the Wage Theft Prevention and Recovery Act  End the Landrum-Griffin Act restrictions that bar unions from hiring some formerly incarcerated people  Eliminate the sub-minimum wage loophole in the Fair Labor Standards Act  Create a National Solidarity Fund, funded by a one cent ($0.
01) per worker-hour tax, paying stipends to workers who are striking or locked out  Encourage Sectoral bargaining through the Department of Labor and National Labor Relations Board (NLRB)  Utilize civil asset forfeiture against companies guilty of violating workers protections (standards to be determined)  Federally mandate and fund three weeks of paid sick leave, eight weeks of paid vacation per year, and one-year parental leave for all new parents.
 Ban at-will employment by requiring just cause to terminate employment.
 Unionize all federal employees  Commit to veto any legislation that breaks strikes    A community is democratic only when the humblest and weakest person can enjoy the highest civil, economic, and social rights that the biggest and most powerful possess.
 Philip Randolph        People's Economy     We need an economy that works for working people, not just the wealthy and powerful.
 To reverse surging inequality and insecurity, we need an Economic Bill of Rights establishing the rights to a living-wage job, guaranteed livable income, housing, healthcare, childcare, lifelong education, secure retirement, utilities, healthy food and clean water, so that all of us are guaranteed the basic security for a good life that can reach our highest potential.
 A Jill Stein administration will:   Guarantee lifelong free public education for all institutions of learning, including trade schools and Pre-K through college and graduate school  Abolish all student debt for 43 million encumbered Americans  Increase and equalize public school funding  End the privatization of public schools  Guarantee free childcare  Reduce taxes on incomes below the real median income of $75,000 per household  Strengthen Social Security - remove the artificial cap on the Social Security tax for the wealthy, and apply the Social Security payroll tax to all income, including capital gains and dividends.
 Remove loopholes that allow foundations to hide wealth from taxation  Institute strongly progressive taxation for incomes and wealth, and increase the estate tax  Guarantee affordable, efficient utilities through a transition of all utilities to public not-for-profit ownership  Free high-speed internet across the U.
 with rural broadband via fiber optics  Put too big to fail banks into public ownership as public utilities (currently the four largest banks which own 25% of all banking assets)  Create nonprofit public state and local banking  Implement postal banking  Replace corporate trade agreements with global fair trade agreements  Prohibit finance capital from buying up single-family homes and rental housing stock  Ban corporate stock buybacks  Break up monopolies in big tech and elsewhere  Tax the ultra-wealthy and giant corporations heavily     We must make our choice.
 We may have democracy, or we may have wealth concentrated in the hands of a few, but we cannot have both.
 -Louis Brandeis         Prisons and Policing     We call the United States the land of the free but we have the highest incarceration rate of any country in the world, with over 2.
3 million people in federal, state, and local prisons and jails.
 Instead of addressing root causes of inequality and injustice, todays systems of policing, prisons, and criminal justice have been designed by the Wall Street parties and their wealthy elite backers to enforce a socioeconomic hierarchy that is systemically racist and classist.
 We need to end mass incarceration, police brutality, and systemic injustice.
 A Jill Stein Administration will guarantee as a human right a restorative criminal justice system that treats every one of the over 2.
3 million people in federal, state, and local prisons and jails with respect, dignity and compassion with the primary goal of reengaging them with their families and communities.
 A Jill Stein administration will:   Ban private prisons and detention centers.
 End mass incarceration and build a system centered on restorative justice.
 Fully legalize cannabis for recreational and medicinal use with similar restrictions to alcohol.
 Release nonviolent drug offenders from prison, remove drug offenses from records, and guarantee both pre- and post-release support  Ensure drug treatment on demand  Begin the process of legalizing hallucinogens (LSD, psilocybin and other related substances) and fund studies on their medicinal benefits.
 Begin the process of decriminalizing personal possession of hard drugs - treat drug misuse as a health problem, not a criminal problem  Increase the number of public defenders and ensure a reasonable caseload and good pay  Ban mandatory minimum sentencing and three strikes laws.
 Abolish unpaid and underpaid prison labor  Mandate and enforce higher standards for living conditions in prisons  Establish community control of police with oversight boards empowered to audit police departments, issue subpoenas, remove officers, and block rehiring of offending officers  End cash bail, fines and fees that disproportionately impact poor and working class people.
 Eliminate all Cop City- type police training facilities that militarize policing and teach dangerous and abusive policing practices.
 End qualified immunity for police and prosecutorial immunity.
 Fund state and national police misconduct data collections systems.
 End the militarization of police (end the 1033 program).
 End training of US police on occupation-style policing by Israeli Defense Forces.
 End Civil Asset Forfeiture for private citizens  Ensure the funding of community-based youth programs as a deterrent to both petty and violent crime and to reduce interactions with police.
 Investigate and prosecute sexual violence, kidnapping, and human trafficking  Fight corporate white-collar crime with resources proportional to its economic impact  End warrantless mass surveillance  Pardon whistleblowers and political prisoners  End the epidemic of gun violence with common-sense gun safety laws:  Ban the sale of assault rifles and establish a buyback program  Establish mandatory waiting periods and background checks for firearm purchases  Pass red flag laws for individuals who pose a danger to themselves and others  Create standardized digital records of gun registrations and sales  Close gun show loopholes  Require firearm owners to own a high-quality gun safe to store their firearms  Require firearm owners to purchase liability insurance of no less than $1,000,000  Hold adult firearm owners criminally liable for minor children accessing firearms and using them in the commission of any crime or accidental injury or death      O, let America be America again The land that never has been yet And yet must bethe land where every man is free.
 -Langston Hughes        Social Justice     Americans cherish ideals of liberty and justice, yet countless millions are still fighting for basic rights.
 US economic and political systems still have pervasive, systemic discrimination against women, Black and Brown people, Indigenous people, immigrants, people with disabilities, the 2SLGBTQIA+ community, and other marginalized groups.
 The Wall Street parties, funded by economic elites who seek to divide and conquer the people, pay lip service to ideals of justice while perpetuating the structures of systemic injustice.
 We need to work towards equity and honor the human rights of every individual.
 Its time to come together to ensure true justice for all.
 Tribal/Indigenous Sovereignty   A Jill Stein Administration will guarantee as a human right the sovereignty of the Indigenous people of Turtle Island (todays U.
 We recognize the history of broken treaties, stolen and occupied lands, and the desecration of the indigenous way of life, so our policies aim to redress harm through restorative justice.
 A Jill Stein Administration will:   Honor all existing treaties with Indigenous nations  Ensure free, prior, and informed consent for any and all activity on tribal sovereign land  Establish a federal Land Back Commission  Create a task force of Tribal nations leaders to assess their needs for infrastructure, resources, education and economic development  Support a Truth and Reconciliation Commission and a reparations plan to address Indigenous peoples economic dispossession  Amend the federal regulations to streamline the recognition process of Tribal Nations, Native Hawaiian Nation and other Pacific and Caribbean Islanders  Increase appointments to Tribal liaison positions, boards and commissions to ensure representation on all policies impacting Tribal Nations  Enforce the United Nations Declaration of the Rights of Indigenous People to require tribal consent for granting construction permits on treaty lands, waterways, and usual and accustomed areas  Prohibit all activities on sovereign territories without Free, Prior, and Informed Consent  Defend Tribal rights to regulate and manage their environments natural resources  Mandate all property tax revenues from tribal (reservation) lands be shared with the tribes  Remove policies and practices that create barriers in upholding Native voting rights at all levels of government  Protect Native religious freedoms  Declare the second Monday in October as the Federal holiday Indigenous Peoples Day  Fund the Indian Health Service and establish at least one IHS clinic in each state  Increase and expand community health centers and behavioral and mental health services for Native youth  Establish an adequately funded medical facility in all reservations  Ensure the Department of Education fully funds and includes Tribal Sovereignty Curriculum developed by Tribal leaders in all states  Provide funding for judicial training on the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978 to eliminate the loss of Native childrens ties and identities to their families, cultures and homelands  Improve and align government policies and efforts, including data collection, to appropriately identify and classify American Indian/Alaska Native and multi-racial students  Expand funding for Tribal Compact Schools and address the disproportionate rates of drop-out, expulsion and suspension rates of Native students at the K-12 level  Expand access to Tribal Colleges and Universities, Native Studies programs in mainstream Colleges and Universities  Officially recognize children lost to adoption under the Indian Relocation Act of 1952, tribal members who were dis-enrolled during the U.
 Indian Tribes termination policies (1940 to mid-1960), prior to the enactment of the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978 and reunify them with their tribes and families  Ensure the rights of Tribal Nations to investigate and exercise criminal jurisdiction over non-Native citizens who commit domestic or sexual violence on Tribal lands in accordance with the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA)  Maintain and authorize the VAWA to fund and expand the specific Tribal Nations provisions, such as judicial training  Improve and fund Native lands justice systems to facilitate prosecution of non-natives accused of serious crimes  Ensure correct Native classification of Missing and Murdered Native women in the federal records  Increase tribal, federal, state and local cooperation to end the crisis of Missing and Murdered Native women  Commission a report on the pipeline culture as an intrinsic factor in the Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women crisis of and mandate oil companies fund resources for crisis prevention  Improve state-federal-tribal relations to avoid bias and discriminatory policing through law enforcement cross-cultural education with Tribal Nations  Expand funding of Urban Indian health organizations to enable them to address the health needs of Native Americans in urban areas who may not have access to Tribal health facilities  Fund Indian Health Services (IHS) trust responsibility for Urban Indians so IHS funds can never be taken from the Federally Recognized Tribal allotment to fund Urban Indian Healthcare  Address the disproportionately high rates of homelessness among Urban Indians  Halt gentrification in Tribal and poor communities that prices people out of their communities  Help States develop and fund Urban Indian Liaison Offices to improve community relations    Reparations and the Agenda to Facilitate Black Liberation   A Jill Stein Administration will guarantee as a human right reparations to the descendants of African slaves for the historic crime of enslavement.
 Reparations is a cornerstone of the Black Agenda, but reparations is far from the only policy needed to begin to redress what has been stolen from the Black community over 400+ years.
 Scholars and activists who have studied and formulated propositions for Reparations itself have put the minimum cash value of reparations at $12 trillion, to be paid to those who claim legitimate descendancy from enslaved Blacks prior to the Civil War.
 This number is derived not only from the stolen labor prior to 1865, but also from the reneged promise of Field Order 15, commonly referred to as 40 acres and a mule, which was never made good upon.
 We dont need any further debate on whether reparations should be paid.
 They should, without question, as they were in 1988 to those impacted by WWII Japanese internment camps.
 The Stein administration will confer with Black community leaders on who qualifies, how they qualify (historical records exist), how much they will be paid in cash, and how those payments will be made.
 There are other policies essential to the overall Black Agenda, as slavery was not the only historic crime against the Black community in America.
 We recognize both historic and existing racism in America, While it has been addressed in legislation such as the Civil Rights Act of 1964, to this day an end to systemic racism has never been realized.
 Many of these essential policies, such as universal healthcare, immigration, policing, and free public college education, are addressed in other areas of this platform.
 Furthermore, it should be noted that the Black Agenda is a progressive agenda.
 In addition to ensuring Reparations, a Jill Stein Administration will:   Direct all federal agencies to consider and include race and ethnicity as part of all of their initiatives and other programs implemented with federal dollars  Overturn the harmful Alexander v.
 Sandoval Supreme Court decision that currently increases the burden for, or eliminates private right of action against entities that violate Title VI and other mandates contained in the Civil RIghts Act of 1964  Promulgate a moratorium on all proposed Cop Cities and end federal investments in such facilities  Establish a National Office for Civilian Oversight Committees to ensure greater transparency and accountability for civilian law enforcement departments  Establish a multi-agency federal Returning Citizens Task Force to assist and provide resources for the formerly incarcerated in an effort to expedite their journey back to full citizen status including, but not limited to, immediate restoration of voting rights in most cases  Increase investment in Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and leverage the power of the federal government to force states to compensate state run, land grant HBCUs the more than $13 Billion they are owed  Increase investments in programs that support Black-owned businesses.
 Ensure that a universal single-payer healthcare system addresses and resolves the health outcome disparities for the Black community, and in particular for Black women  Eliminate food deserts where fresh produce and food sovereignty is largely unavailable, a condition which disproportionately impacts Black communities.
 Work with Congress and federal agencies to codify the Justice for Black Farmers Act  Eliminate white nationalists from police forces by Federal law, and ensure white nationalist groups activities are routinely monitored, due to white nationalist violence being the greatest single source of domestic terrorism.
 Ensure the Office of Civil Rights is fully funded, staffed, and fulfills its obligation to protect the civil rights of marginalized communities.
 Restore Section 4(b) and Section 5 of the 1965 Voting Rights Act and permanently certify the entire law  Address and ameliorate the legacy of redlining through programs that deliver recompense for Black homeowners whose home values are adversely and disproportionately impacted to this day by this systemically racist practice  Federal moratorium on new construction of fossil fuel infrastructure and other polluting operations in or proximate to Black and other environmental justice communities  Massive reinvestment from policing and prisons into social, economic, and other programs that lead to direct community benefits  Establish a federal commission to eradicate the lead pipes and tainted water crisis impacting cities like Flint, MI within one year after I take office  Work with Congress and impacted community members to draft and pass the Justice for Cancer Alley Act that will include compensation and free healthcare in perpetuity for victims in this region who have been subjected to environmentally racist practices for decades  Coordinate with Black-led formations including, but not limited to, the Black Hive at Movement for Black Lives to codify proposals and demands included in their Black Climate Mandate   Coordinate with Black-led formations including, but not limited to, the Black Alliance for Peace to promulgate their Zone of Peace strategies that combat and dismantle larger structures and interests that generate war and state violencecolonialism, patriarchy, capitalism and all forms of imperialism both domestically and internationally    Nobodys free until everybodys free.
 -Fannie Lou Hamer   2SLGBTQIA+ Rights   A Jill Stein Administration will guarantee the human rights of the 2SLGBTQIA+ community.
 Violent attacks on transgender women (particularly Black and other transgender women of color), recent stripping of state protections, lack of legal protection after negative court rulings, and long-standing historical inequities continue.
 We will end the acceptance of a violent culture that devalues the humanity of our 2SLGBTQIA+ siblings.
 We will fight for the liberation of 2SLGBTQIA+ people around the world.
 Heres how:   Support the Equality Act, the PRIDE Act, the Every Child Deserves a Family Act, and other bills to prohibit discrimination by the U.
, the military, state or local governments, or private industry  Support the PrEP Access and Coverage Act (until universal healthcare is implemented).
 Develop and implement 2SLGBTQIA+ inclusive public education to combat bullying  Include 2SLGBTQIA+ history in school curricula, provide school and community trainings and 2SLGBTQIA+ specific school counseling  Federally prohibit the harmful practice of conversion therapy  Fund housing relief programs for 2SLGBTQIA+ youth, who are disproportionately represented in unsheltered populations  Remove punitive and cumbersome legal name change requirements and fees  Declare trans murder and suicide rates a national emergency  De-gender or add nonbinary gender options to all Federal public documents  De-gender school dress codes, and guarantee protection from discrimination as a result of dress in workplaces  Publish the original Equal Rights Amendment in the National Archives, effectively bringing it into law.
 Prohibit insurance companies from denying trans-affirming procedures  Remove transmedicalist language from all educational materials relating to trans individuals  Specifically prohibit disciplining or firing trans employees for acknowledging their gender/pronouns with customers, clients, or other individuals in the workplace  Legally prohibit mutilative surgeries on intersex infants  Pass legislation to mandate that police adopt policies to ensure fairer interactions with transgender people, especially transgender women of color, who are disproportionately impacted by disparities in policing  Outlaw misgendered imprisonment nationwide and end gay panic and trans panic defenses for violent crimes  Prevent and repeal any legislation that purports to protect religious liberty at the expense of the rights of others    Disability Rights   A Jill Stein Administration will guarantee as a human right that every person with visible or invisible disabilities is free from ableist policies that harm and isolate them.
 We commit to ending disparities in pay, benefits, housing, healthcare, and education, and commit to disability inclusion and representation to ensure that all people can contribute their talents and skills as full members of a diverse and thriving society.
 Heres how:   Work towards economic security for people with disabilities by ensuring opportunities to partake fully in the economy at a fair wage and to enable financial security for all  Make sure that technology is accessible and supports the goals of the diverse lives of people with disabilities  Help children with disabilities and their families by providing life-changing early interventions and getting them valuable access to education  Defend the civil liberties of people with disabilities in areas like criminal justice, voting, physical and mental health, parental rights, and marriage equality  End all exceptions in wage laws and workplace protections for individuals with disabilities  Expand Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) and Supplemental Social Income (SSI) to a living wage of greater than 10% of regional Cost of Living calculations  Expand access to Social Security/SSDI/SSI, including assistance of public lawyers in SSDI application.
 Eliminate SSI waiting periods and disability proof requirements  Update the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), with updates to be informed by people in the disabled community.
 Fully fund the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA)  Pass the Disabilities Integration Act   Expand funding for Aging and Disability Resource Centers (ADRCs)  Ratify the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
 Ensure that disabled immigrants are afforded the same immigration rights as non-disabled immigrants  Federally invest in upgrading all existing public housing and public schools to ADA accessibility standards  Provide Federal funding to meet ADA accessibility and accommodation requests by individual residents, students and faculty  Create a federal Disability Education Services Agency to offer public schools resources and training to support students with disabilities  Pass a permanent Money Follows the Person (MFP) program to resist institutionalization and ensure a Right to Return to homes and community  Eliminate small business exemptions to the ADA; Appropriate federal funds to achieve compliance by small businesses  Establish federal marriage equality to eliminate marriage penalties for individuals with disabilities  Ensure opioid pain management protections for those with chronic and debilitating pain  Ensure a federal jobs guarantee covers people with disabilities, particularly with respect to limited work schedules and nontraditional job roles    Women's Rights   Womens rights are human rights.
 As women's freedoms, protections and rights are continually under assault by extremist groups, we will defend and codify womens full rights once and for all.
 A Jill Stein administration will:   Publish the Equal Rights Amendment  Pass the Paycheck Fairness Act (HR 7) to end pay discrimination and ensure equal pay for equal work  Pass the 2021 Violence Against Women Act  Ensure that domestic abusers cannot own or buy a gun  Federally fund and expedite all rape kit testing  Codify Roe v Wade  Ensure full reproductive rights and bodily autonomy for women  Repeal the Hyde Amendment  Fund free birth control and menstruation products  Repeal FOSTA/SESTA which puts sex workers at risk  Decriminalize sex work  Expand the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC)  Protect and enforce Title IX  Ensure prosecution of sexual harassment and violence in the workplace and the military    The liberation of women and men from the bonds of patriarchy is essential to the work of building a peaceful, just, and ecological society.
 -Petra Kelly          The Real Green New Deal     A Jill Stein Administration will advance the ecosocialist Real Green New Deal that the Green Party made its signature issue in the 2010s.
 It is imperative to distinguish the Real Green New Deal from the nonbinding Green New Deal resolution proposed in recent years.
 For instance, the nonbinding Green New Deal does not call for a ban on fracking or a prohibition of new fossil fuel infrastructure.
 Moreover, the inadequacy of the nonbinding Green New Deal to address climate and ecological crisis is further demonstrated by the following:   Extends the timeline for zero emissions by 15-20 years to 2050  Redefines zero emissions to net zero to enable the continued burning of fossil fuels with false climate solutions like carbon capture and sequestration and direct air capture  Replaces tenet of democratic public ownership and planning in the energy, transportation, manufacturing, and housing sectors with unreliable market-based incentives featuring public subsidies for private corporations  Does not stipulate the phase-out of nuclear power - a scam which is dirty, dangerous, unaffordable, uninsurable and has no solution to the problem of toxic nuclear waste  No mention of the need for deep cuts in military spending and operations to help pay for the Green New Deal and slash emissions in the process    In short, we need the economic democracy of an ecosocialist Real Green New Deal to plan and coordinate the complicated transition to 100% clean energy and zero emissions on the rapid timescale required to save our climate.
 An ecosocialist approach is also necessary to fairly compensate and center people - primarily, Black, Indigenous, and the poor, who were systematically excluded from the original New Deal - as well as redress the lasting impacts of profoundly racist policies that derived from it including, but not limited to, redlining - which acted as a catalyst for the legacy of environmental racism.
