 President Trump unveiled his new Quantum Leap plan that will create a new American future and modernize communities across the country.
 By building new cities, investing in transportation, lowering the cost of living for everyone, and modernizing public spaces across the country, President Trump has laid out a bold strategy to revolutionize the American Standard of Living.
   Past generations of Americans pursued big dreams and daring projects that once seemed absolutely impossible, President Trump said.
 Under my leadership, we will get it back in a very big way.
 Our objective will be a quantum leap in the American Standard of Living.
   In addition to universal baseline tariffs on most foreign goods, President Trump's Strategic National Manufacturing Initiative will reclaim our economic independence from China.
 President Trump will revoke Chinas Most Favored Nation trade status and adopt a 4-year plan to phase out all Chinese imports of essential goodseverything from electronics to steel to pharmaceuticals  bringing many of those jobs back home.
   Past generations of Americans pursued big dreams and daring projects that once seemed absolutely impossible.
 They pushed across an unsettled continent and built new cities in the wild frontier.
 They transformed American life with the interstate highway systemmagnificent it was.
 And they launched a vast network of satellites into orbit all around the earth.
   Almost one third of the land-mass of the United States is owned by the federal government.
 With just a very, very small portion of that land just a fraction [of] one half of one percentwould you believe that? We should hold a contest to charter up to 10 new cities and award them to the best proposals for development.
   In other words, well actually build new cities in our country again.
 These Freedom Cities will reopen the frontier, reignite American imagination, and give hundreds of thousands of young people and other people, all hardworking families, a new shot at home ownership and in fact, the American Dream.
 and China are racing to develop vertical-takeoff-and-landing vehicles for families and individuals.
 Just as the United States led the automotive revolution in the last century, I want to ensure that America, not China, leads this revolution in air mobility.
 These breakthroughs can transform commerce, bring a giant infusion of wealth into RURAL America, and connect families and our country in new ways.
   Finally, I will challenge the governors of all 50 states to join me in a great modernization and beautification campaigngetting rid of ugly buildings, refurbishing our parks and our public spaces, making cities and towns more livable, ensuring a pristine environment, and building towering monuments to our true American heroes.
   Every year, we spend hundreds of billions of dollars to treat these chronic problems rather than looking at what is causing them in the first place, President Trump said.
 Too often, our public health establishment is too close to Big Pharmathey make a lot of money, Big Pharmabig corporations, and other special interests, and does not want to ask the tough questions about what is happening to our childrens health.
   Every year, we spend hundreds of billions of dollars to treat these chronic problems rather than looking at what is causing them in the first place.
 Too often, our public health establishment is too close to Big Pharmathey make a lot of money, Big Pharmabig corporations, and other special interests, and does not want to ask the tough questions about what is happening to our childrens health.
 If Big Pharma defrauds American patients and taxpayers or puts profits above people, they must be investigated and held accountable.
   When I am back in the White House, I will establish a special Presidential Commission of independent minds who are not bought and paid for by Big Pharma, and I will charge them with investigating what is causing the decades-long increase in chronic illnesses.
 I understand Big Pharma, I believe better than anyone else.
 And then, I will ask them to publish recommendations for how every American child can have a safe and healthy childhood.
   As President, I will set a national goal of ensuring that America has the No.
 1 lowest cost of energy of any industrial country anywhere on Earth," President Trump said.
 "We will not only match China we will be cheaper than China by a lot.
 And more energy will mean lower inflation that will mean more jobs.
"   President Trump will once again exit the horrendously unfair Paris Climate Accords and oppose all of the radical lefts Green New Deal policies that are designed to shut down the development of Americas abundant energy resources, which exceed any countrys in the world, including Russia and Saudi Arabia.
   Because EVs cost an average of TWICE as much as gas-powered vehicles, take longer to fully charge, and have shorter ranges, almost two-thirds of Americans prefer their next car purchase to be a gas-powered vehicle, nearly half of all car dealerships would never sell an EV, and about half of current EV owners plan to switch back to a gas-powered car.
   President Trump helped finance the construction of Units 3 and 4 at Plant Vogtle in Georgia, the first new nuclear reactors to begin construction in the United States in more than 30 years, which will create 800 permanent jobs, provide electricity to 1.
6 million American homes, and avoid 10 million metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions annually.
   If America is going to dominate the world in manufacturing once again as it did when I was running things -- you remember when they used to say you can't have manufacturing jobs in our country anymore.
 I said really? Why? And we created hundreds of thousands of them -- we must be the most affordable energy and electricity place anywhere on the planet.
 Right now we have energy that's weak, substandard, and unaffordable.
 Its called the Green New Deal -- I call it the Green New Hoax.
   We were energy independent just three years ago.
 And yet we have many times more than any other country.
 There is no country -- Saudi Arabia, Russia, nobody -- no country has what we have.
 We will develop the liquid gold that is right under our feet, including American oil and natural gas and we will also embrace nuclear, clean coal, hydropower, which is fantastic, and every other form of affordable energy to get it done.
   In the future, every manufacturing plant, every data center, every semiconductor facility and assembly line will want to be built in America.
 Because we're going to have the lowest cost of energy.
 This will be the place where the cost of energy is lower than anyplace else on Earth, where the economy is stronger than anyplace else on Earth, and where the workers are the best, brightest and most talented anywhere in the world.
   Under the Trump Reciprocal Trade Act, other countries will have two choicestheyll get rid of their tariffs on us, or they will pay us hundreds of billions of dollars, and the United States will make an absolute FORTUNE.
 There will be no more unilateral economic surrender like weve done for many many decades.
   This will especially help our great farmers in Iowa and other Agricultural states, and it will help our manufactures all across the nation.
 We will be knocking down barriers to American farm products, American dairy products, steeljust about everything you can think of.
 From all around the world they take advantage of us, but no more.
   As part of my plan to secure the border, on Day One of my new term in office, I will sign an executive order making clear to federal agencies that under the correct interpretation of the law, going forward, the future children of illegal aliens will not receive automatic U.
   - The announcement of todays Executive Order follows a historical slate of hundreds of executive actions, proclamations, and presidential memorandums on border security and immigration that President Trump implemented while in office to remake the immigration system in the United States for the interest of the American people, including:   - The purpose of the 14th Amendment had nothing to do with the citizenship of immigrants, let alone the citizenship of the children of illegal aliens.
 Its purpose was to extend citizenship to people newly freed from slavery, whose status was left in question after the infamous case Dred Scott v.
   - This twisting of the amendment's meaning and intent has caused America to become one of the few countries in the world to extend citizenship to the children of illegal aliens even if both parents are not citizens nor even legally present in the United States, thus diluting the privileges that Americans are entitled to.
   They'll be eligible for welfare, taxpayer-funded healthcare, the right to vote, chain migration, and countless other government benefits, many of which will also profit the illegal alien parents.
 This policy is a reward for breaking the laws of the United States and is obviously a magnet, helping draw the flood of illegals across our borders.
   They come by the millions and millions and millions.
 They come from mental institutions, they come from jails-- prisoners, some of the toughest, meanest people you'll ever see.
 The United States is among the only countries in the world that says that even if neither parent is a citizen nor even lawfully in the country, their future children are automatic citizens the moment the parents trespass onto our soil.
 As has been laid out by many scholars, this current policy is based on a historical myth, and a willful misinterpretation of the law by the open borders advocates.
 My order will also end their unfair practice known as birth tourism, where hundreds of thousands of people from all over the planet squat in hotels for their last few weeks of pregnancy to illegitimately and illegally obtain US citizenship for the child, often to later exploit chain migration to jump the line and get green cards for themselves and their family members.
   It's a practice that's so horrible, and so egregious, but we let it go forward.
 At least one parent will have to be a citizen or a legal resident in order to qualify.
 We will secure our borders and we will restore our sovereignty.
 Starting on Day One, our country will be great again.
 We'll have borders, we'll have proper education, and we'll put America First.
   They will use the power of the federal government to abolish zoning for single family homes, destroy your property values by building giant multifamily apartment complexes in the suburbs and even next to your houseand force your community to pay for low-income housing developments right next door.
   Our once-great cities have become unlivable, unsanitary nightmares, surrendered to the homeless, the drug addicted, and the violent and dangerously deranged.
 We are making the many suffer for the whims of a deeply unwell few, President Trump said.
 For a small fraction of what we spend upon Ukraine, we could take care of every homeless veteran in America.
   When I am back in the White House, we will use every tool, lever, and authority to get the homeless off our streets.
 We want to take care of them, but they have to be off our streets.
 There is nothing compassionate about letting these individuals live in filth and squalor rather than getting them the help they need.
   The homeless have no right to turn every park and sidewalk into a place for them to squat and do drugs.
 Americans should not have to step over piles of needles and waste as they walk down a street in a beautiful city.
 Or at least once beautiful city because theyve changed so much over the last ten years.
   We will then open up large parcels of inexpensive land, bring in doctors, psychiatrists, social workers, and drug rehab specialists, and create tent cities where the homeless can be relocated and their problems identified.
 We will open up our cities again, make them livable and make them beautiful.
   And for those who are severely mentally ill and deeply disturbed, we will bring them back to mental institutions, where they belong, with the goal of reintegrating them back into society once they are well enough to manage.
 Its a tough task, a very tough task, whats taken place on the streets, whats taken place when theyre taking so much drugs.
   We will not rest until we have ended the drug addiction crisis, President Trump said.
 For three decades before my election, drug overdose deaths increased every single year.
 Under my leadership, we took the drug and fentanyl crisis head on, and we achieved the first reduction in overdose deaths in more than thirty years.
   As part of this effort, there should be a federal inquiry into the Soros prosecutor in Austin, Texas, who charged a veteran with murder for defending himself against a threat by a heavily armed member of a radical left mob.
 I will also order the Department of Justice to establish a task force on protecting the right to self-defense, which is under siege nationwide.
   We have to reform the far-left Bar Associations and stop the purge of Conservative lawyers from major law firms.
 I will do whatever it takes to save our legal systemamong the greatest achievements of Western Civilizationfrom the Marxist barbarians who seek to destroy it.
   I will require every federal employee to pass a new Civil Service test demonstrating an understanding of our Constitutional limited government, President Trump said.
 This will include command of due process rights, equal protection, Free Speech, religious liberty, federalism, the Fourth Amendment protections against unreasonable search and seizureI know all about that at Mar-a-Lago, dont I and all the other constitutional limits on federal power.
   In addition, I will require that all agency regulatory guidance must be posted publicly in a central database, or else be rendered null and void.
 This will effectively repeal a mountain of stealth regulations and threats that rogue bureaucrats have imposed without proper oversight.
   And I will sign a law to ban bureaucrats from taking any enforcement action based on informal guidance alone.
 For example, never again will bureaucrats be allowed to bully and pressure banks to choke off or financially de-platform politically disfavored industries.
   Next, I will bring the independent regulatory agencies, such as the FCC and the FTC, back under Presidential authority, as the Constitution demands.
 These agencies do not get to become a fourth branch of government, issuing rules and edicts all by themselves.
 We will require that they submit any regulations they are considering for White House review.
   Finally, I will require every federal employee to pass a new Civil Service test demonstrating an understanding of our Constitutional limited government.
 This will include command of due process rights, equal protection, Free Speech, religious liberty, federalism, the Fourth Amendment protections against unreasonable search and seizureI know all about that at Mar-a-Lago, dont I and all the other constitutional limits on federal power.
   And then if they have children, not only do the children get automatic citizenship, but they unlock a trove of additional government benefits flowing to illegal immigrant households.
 In the meantime, our Vets suffer and our citizens suffer.
 On Day One of my new Administration, we will shut down this travesty and defend the wealth of hardworking Middle-Class families.
   I will stop the outrageous abuse of parole authority.
 I will reinstate my action making illegals ineligible for public housing.
 We will terminate all work permits for illegal aliens.
 And I will demand that Congress send me a bill blocking any future President from abusing his power to distribute welfare benefits in this manner.
 It's all being paid for by the American taxpayer.
   Like automatic citizenship for children of illegal aliens, welfare is a gigantic magnet drawing people from all over the world.
 They want to feast off the sweat and savings of the American taxpayer.
 President Trump will take on the radical Marxist prosecutors who have abolished cash bail and refuse to charge criminals.
 President Trump will direct the DOJ to open civil rights investigations into radical leftist prosecutors officers, such as those in Chicago, Los Angeles, and San Francisco to determine whether they have illegally engaged in race-based law enforcement.
   This bill will also increase vital liability protections for officers because the Democrats want to take those protections away from our police, because we want them to do their jobs, and we want them to do their jobs right.
 You can't take their protections away if you're going to have them do their jobs properly.
   Second, to qualify for this new funding and all other Justice Department grants, I will insist that local jurisdictions return to proven common sense policing measures, such as stop and frisk very simpleyou stop them and you frisk them, strictly enforcing existing gun laws against convicted felons, cracking down on the open use of illegal drugs, and cooperating with ICE to get criminal aliens off our streets and get them out of our country.
   Third, we will go after the radical Marxist prosecutors who are abolishing cash bail, refusing to charge crimes, and surrendering our cities to violent criminals.
 I will direct the DOJ to open civil rights investigations into radical left prosecutors offices, such as those in Chicago, L.
, and San Francisco to determine whether they have illegally engaged in race-based enforcement of the law.
   I will also work with Congress to give the victims of their Marxist policies the right to sue local officials for harm and suffering, and it has been great that they have caused.
 If your small business is pillaged because shoplifting goes unpunished, if you're brutally attacked by a violent felon released without bail or bond, then you will be entitled to massive damages.
   We already know where these turf wars and drug dens are.
 And we're going to charge them and charge the culprits with every crime that we can find.
 We're going to be fair, but we're going to be tough.
 We also need the death penalty for drug dealers, so important.
 They get the death penalty, watch it stop and stop quickly.
   Sixth, we will end the leftist takeover of school discipline and juvenile justice.
 Many of these carjackers and criminals are 13, 14, and 15 years old.
 I will order the Education and Justice Departments to overhaul federal standards on disciplining minors.
 So, when troubled youth are out of control, they're out on the streets and they're going wild, we will stop it.
 The consequences are swift, certain and strong and they will know that.
   Seventh, they will protect the right of self-defense everywhere it is under siege.
 Your Second Amendment does not end at the state line.
 In addition, I will of course fully secure the border, dramatically increase interior enforcement, and wage war on the cartels.
   We have never had a border so secure as it was just two years ago.
 And now our border is the worst anywhere in the world, and possibly of all time.
 Theres never been a country that allowed to happen what's happening in the United States right now, where millions of people are pouring across our borders.
 Theyre all being led out so they can come into the United States.
   We will also take back our streets from the homeless, the drug addicted, and the mentally ill.
 I will discuss those plans in much more detail very soon.
 That is how I will bring back public safety to America.
 We're going to Make America Great Again and we're going to Make America Safe Again.
            For decades, weve had the very same people, such as Victoria Nuland and many others just like her, obsessed with pushing Ukraine toward NATO, not to mention the State Departments support for uprisings in Ukraine, President Trump.
 These people have been seeking confrontation for a long time, much like the case in Iraq and other parts of the world, and now, were teetering on the brink of World War III.
 And a lot of people dont see it, but I see it, and Ive been right about a lot of things.
   Take a look at the globalist warmonger donors backing our opponents.
 I am the President who delivers peace, and its peace through strength.
 There was a reason we had no conflict, there was a reason we didnt get into wars, because other countries respected us.
   One of the reasons I was the only president in generations who didnt start a war is that I was the only president who rejected the catastrophic advice of many of Washingtons Generals, bureaucrats, and the so-called diplomats who only know how to get us into conflict, but they dont know how to get us out.
   For decades, weve had the very same people, such as Victoria Nuland and many others just like her, obsessed with pushing Ukraine toward NATO, not to mention the State Departments support for uprisings in Ukraine.
 These people have been seeking confrontation for a long time, much like the case in Iraq and other parts of the world, and now, were teetering on the brink of World War III.
 And a lot of people dont see it, but I see it, and Ive been right about a lot of things.
 They all say, Trumps been right about everything.
   Over our 4 years in the White House, we made incredible progress in putting the America-Last contingent aside and bringing the world to peaceand now, were going to complete the mission.
 The State Department, Pentagon, and National Security Establishment will be a very different place by the end of my administration.
 In fact, just into my administration itll be a very different place, and itll get things done just like I did four years ago.
 Well also stop the lobbyists and the big defense contractors from going in and pushing our senior military and national security officials toward conflict, only to reward them when they retire with lucrative jobsgetting paid millions and millions of dollars.
   Take a look at the globalist warmonger donors backing our opponents.
 I am the President who delivers peace, and its peace through strength.
 There was a reason we had no conflict, there was a reason we didnt get into wars, because other countries respected us.
 I entirely built all right from the beginningrebuilt our military.
 They didnt want to mess around with the United States, and now theyre laughing at us.
 We could end the Ukraine conflict in 24 hours with the right leadership.
 At the end of my next four years, the warmongers, and frauds, and failures in the senior ranks of our government will all be gone, and we will have a new group of competent national security officials who believe in defending Americas vital interests above all else.
   Under my leadership, we did more than any administration in history to combat human trafficking and to end modern day slavery, President Trump said.
 In one of my first acts in office, I signed an executive order targeting transnational criminal organizations that traffic and exploit innocent people.
 I signed the Frederick Douglass Trafficking Victims Prevention and Protection Reauthorization Act, authorizing $430 million to fight sex and labor trafficking.
7 million in the first week of its release and opened at No.
 The feature has taken the nation by storm, beating out Disneys Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny in July 4th movie ticket sales despite appearing in far fewer theaters, securing the top position in the box office for the day.
 The film which is being distributed by Angel Studios, was produced by Mexican filmmaker Eduardo Verstegui and stars Jim Caviezel.
   Verstegui who was previously appointed a member of President Trumps Advisory Commission on Hispanic Prosperity and who has continuously advocated for a strong and vital bilateral relationship between the U.
 and Mexico, emphasized the importance of coming together as a society to address this pernicious evil and eradicate child trafficking.
   I was thrilled to host a screening at Bedminster of the important new film, Sound of Freedom about the power of faith in overcoming evil and in particular, the evil of child trafficking.
 We had it down to the lowest number in many years, just four years ago, and now it's gone through the roof.
 Even though the fake news media has tried to ignore it.
   Sound of Freedom has been a national sensation and a colossal success at the box office, really big numbers, everyone should see it.
 This is a very important film and very important movie and it's a very important documentary all wrapped up in one.
 It's really about an issue that has to be discussed.
   Under my leadership, we did more than any administration in history to combat human trafficking and to end modern day slavery.
 In one of my first acts in office, I signed an executive order targeting transnational criminal organizations that traffic and exploit innocent people.
 I signed the Frederick Douglass Trafficking Victims Prevention and Protection Reauthorization Act, authorizing $430 million to fight sex and labor trafficking.
   I signed legislation to crack down on foreign countries who are not meeting standards for eliminating trafficking, of which there are many.
 I also signed into law the abolish Human Trafficking Act, which strengthened programs supporting survivors and provided more resources for ending modern slavery.
   We do have modern slavery, if you can believe it.
 Additionally, I created the first ever White House position focused solely on combating human trafficking and perhaps most importantly, we created the most secure border in US history by far, dealing a major blow to the cartels and traffickers.
 We never had anything like it, and then I got Mexico free of charge, to give us 28,000 soldiers to protect us from people coming into our country illegally.
   I will use Title 42 to end the child trafficking crisis by returning all trafficked children to their families in their home countries and without delay, and I will urge Congress to ensure that anyone caught trafficking children across our border receives the death penalty immediately and that includes also for women, because women as you know are number one in trafficking.
 Trump released a new Agenda47 policy video vowing to once again ban insidious Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) investments in order to protect Americans' hard-earned savings and investments from woke financial scams.
 President Trumps bold actions set the example for Republicans across the country to follow his lead in fighting ESG.
   I'm very proud that as President, I issued a historic rule banning Wall Street and employers from pouring your 401Ks, pensions, and retirement accounts into so called ESG or Environmental, Social, and Governance investments for political reasonsstrictly for political reasons.
 These poorly performing woke financial scams are radical left garbage that would never be funded on their own, and certainly never be funded on their own merits.
   The entire ESG scheme is designed to funnel your retirement money to the maniacs on the radical left.
 The rule we issued under my leadership was the first ESG ban anywhere in the world.
 And I'm delighted that Republicans in Congress and across the country have been waking up to this threat and following my lead.
   I will demand that funds invest your money to help you, not them, but to help you.
 Not to help the radical left communists, because that's exactly what they are.
 I will once again protect our seniors, just like I did before, from the woke left and the woke left is bad news.
   This great undertaking will also help restore hope and aspiration to America's young people, instead of being irrationally terrified by political predictions of climate apocalypse.
 Instead of toiling, for low wages or left-wing make-work projects, I have a vision that will give young Americans a chance to find real meaning and work once again, like we had it two and a half years ago, building the backbone of America that is powerful, prosperous, productive, vigorous, modern, independent, and free.
   As you know, China paid hundreds of billions of dollars to the United States when I was president.
 No other president got ten cents, check it out, not even ten cents.
 I will deploy a team of warrior lawyers to hunt down every unnecessary regulation in the federal registry that hampers domestic production.
 And we will rapidly issue approvals for all worthy energy infrastructure projects with a focus on maximum speed to bring prices down rapidly.
 So, get those proposals ready now, because we are going to put thousands of Americans to work building the power plants, pipelines, grids, ports, refineries, and shipping terminals of tomorrow.
 We are going to have very inexpensive energy again, like we did just two and a half years ago.
   This great undertaking will also help restore hope and aspiration to America's young people, instead of being irrationally terrified by political predictions of climate apocalypse.
 Instead of toiling, for low wages or left-wing make-work projects, I have a vision that will give young Americans a chance to find real meaning and work once again, like we had it two and a half years ago, building the backbone of America that is powerful, prosperous, productive, vigorous, modern, independent, and free.
   Second, we will clean out all of the corrupt actors in our National Security and Intelligence apparatus, and there are plenty of them.
 The departments and agencies that have been weaponized will be completely overhauled so that faceless bureaucrats will never again be able to target and persecute conservatives, Christians, or the left's political enemies, which they're doing now at a level that nobody can believe even possible.
   Seventh, I will ask Congress to establish an independent auditing system to continually monitor our intelligence agencies to ensure they are not spying on our citizens or running disinformation campaigns against the American people, or that they are not spying on someone's campaign like they spied on my campaign.
   Eighth, we will continue the effort launched by the Trump administration to move parts of the sprawling federal bureaucracy to new locations outside the Washington Swamp.
 Just as I moved the Bureau of Land Management to Colorado, as many as 100,000 government positions can be moved out.
 And I mean immediately out of Washington to places filled with patriots who love America, and they really do love America.
   Ninth, I will work to ban federal bureaucrats from taking jobs at the companies they deal with and that they regulate.
 So they deal with these companies and they regulate these companies and then they want to take jobs from these companies.
 Doesn't work that waysuch a public display cannot go on and it's taking place all the time, like with Big Pharma.
   Under the Trump tax cuts, we allowed families to use 529 Education Savings Accounts to spend up to $10,000 a year tax free on tuition for grades K through 12.
 This was a tremendous win for School Choice -- very important, school choice, remember that term and yet, that benefit did not apply to homeschoolers.
   President Trump supports the right of parents to know what their children are being taught in the classroom, to be able to openly communicate any of their concerns with teachers and principals, to protect the privacy of their children, to be made aware of changing academic standards, to be updated on any acts of violence occurring at school, to inspect professional development materials, to be notified before an out-of-school guest speaks in class or at a school event, to review the budget and spending of their childrens school, to know if a school employee is working to address bullying or mental health concerns (including drug use or weapon use), to consent to all student surveys related to health, to have the right to opt out of school healthcare services, and to be immediately notified if a teacher or other school employee has worked to change their childrens name, pronouns, or understanding of his or her gender.
   President Trump will also inform states and school districts that if any teacher or school official suggests to a child that they could be trapped in the wrong body, they will be faced with severe consequencesincluding potential civil rights violations for sex discrimination and the elimination of federal funding.
   A 2022 study from the University of North Carolina School of Education found that efforts to recruit and retain high-performing principals are likely to have large payoffs.
 A study by the National Association of Secondary School Principals showed that school leadership is second only to classroom instruction as an influence on student learningor as another study from Stronge & Associates Educational Consulting put it , There is no high-performing school without an effective principal Principal leadership matters.
   To reward good teachers, President Trump will implement funding preferences and favorable treatment for states and school districts that abolish teacher tenure for grades K-12, adopt Merit Pay to reward good teachers, and give parents the right to vote for the principals who direct their childrens education.
   President Trump will get Critical Race Theory, transgender ideology, and left-wing indoctrination OUT of our schoolsand he will get reading, writing, and arithmetic back IN, so that Americas young people have the knowledge, skills, and training they need to get a great job and lead a successful career.
   Just as he did during his first term, President Trump will fight for patriotic education in Americas schools.
 Notwithstanding that Americas founding principles of liberty and equality have successfully guided the United States throughout the most difficult periods in its historyincluding the long struggle to abolish slavery, our victories over fascism and communism, the advancement of civil rights for all, and the expansion of material prosperity to more people of every background in a remarkably short period of timedecades of poor scholarship have vilified our Founders and the principles that they championed and have taught many of our young people to hate their own country.
   But as Americas history has shown, the path to a restored and strengthened unity can be found through the rediscovery of a shared national identity rooted in our Founding principles and an appreciation of our wonderful American heroes.
 President Trump will ensure our children know the truth about the American Founding, learn the stories of our remarkable heroes, discover the glories of Western Civilization, and come to appreciate the United States as the freest, most prosperous, and most virtuous nation in the history of the world.
   Just as he did during his first term, President Trump will ensure that to receive federal funds, local educational agencies must confirm that their policies do not prevent or interfere with constitutionally protected rights.
 President Trumps guidance streamlined students ability to file a complaint if their rights were being violated and guaranteed that students could read religious texts or pray during recess and other non-instructional periods.
   Greatness in the classroom requires safety in the classroom.
 To that end, President Trump will completely overhaul federal standards on school discipline to get out-of-control troublemakers OUT of the classroom and INTO reform schools and corrections facilities, for the good of themselves and their peers alike.
 This will include supporting immediate expulsion for any student who harms a teacher or another student.
   President Trump will end the leftist takeover of school discipline and the juvenile system.
 He will order the Departments of Justice and Education to overhaul federal standards on disciplining minors to get violent thugs out of our childrens classrooms so they can get the professional help they need.
 When troubled youth are out of control, the consequences must be swift, certain, and strong.
   To further harden our schools against harm from outside intruders, President Trump will support federal funding to hire veterans, retired police officers, and other trained gunowners as armed guards in our nations schoolsa measure that will help deter unhinged maniacs and keep our nations children out of harms way.
   As he previously announced, President Trump will direct the U.
 Food and Drug Administration to convene an independent outside panel to investigate whether transgender hormone treatments and ideology increase the risk of extreme depression, aggression, and violence.
 He will also look at whether common psychiatric drugs, as well as genetically engineered cannabis and other narcotics, are causing psychotic breaks.
   Americas students are more successful, more engaged, and more prepared for real-world experience when their education involves hands-on projects that aim to approximate what real-world work situations will demand of them.
 President Trump will support project-based learning inside the classroom to help train students for fulfilling work outside the classroom.
   Harvard Universitys Graduate School of Education defines project-based learning as a way to develop deep conceptual understanding of abstract concepts by seeing how those concepts actually operate in the real worldbecause in order to be successful, students need to do more than just read textbooks or listen in lecture halls.
   For many students, the path to a great job is a great internship or part-time work.
 For that reason, President Trump will implement funding preferences for schools that actively work to help students secure internships, part-time work, and summer jobs that will set them on the path to long and fulfilling careers.
   According to a report published by MDRC, a long-term study of high school career academies, which combined technicalcareer education with an academic curriculum and provided some students with internships with local employers, found that these programs had large, positive impacts on students labor market outcomes eight years later.
   Another education model that prioritizes meaningful work experience is Cristo Rey , a Catholic school network that  delivers a career focused, college preparatory education in the Catholic tradition for students with limited economic resources, uniquely integrating rigorous academic curricula with four years of professional work experience and support to and through college.
 As education policy analyst and former senior Manhattan Institute fellow Charles Upton Sahm observed of the Cristo Rey models work-study program, it operates, in essence, like a small employment agencywith firms contracting with Cristo Rey to staff entry-level jobs with each student working five days a month in addition to their schoolwork.
 The program, Sahm wrote, helps students build impressive credentials and contacts as well as develop their confidence and self-worth.
   According to the National Career Development Association (NCDA), school counselors can play a vital role in helping students identify their lifes purpose.
 Having a purpose, NCDA finds, can be highly motivating and encourage students to develop skills and persistence towards meaningful education, life, and career goals.
   The American School Counselor Association School found that high school and college counselors improve their service to their students when they understand [career technical education (CTE)] offers numerous benefits, including rigorous programs of study, academic and CTE curriculum and productive relationships within the business community.
 These advantages serve as effective means that school counselors can use to help all students make informed career decisions.
   The Trump administration restored state and local control of education by faithfully implementing the Every Student Succeeds Act, which prohibits the U.
 Department of Education from attempting to influence, incentivize, or coerce a state to adopt the Common Core State Standards or any other academic standards common to a significant number of states.
   In 2020, President Trump created the 1776 Commission to better enable a rising generation to understand the history and principles of the founding of the United States in 1776, and, through this, form a more perfect Union.
 And in January 2021, the Commission released the  1776 Report , which calls for the nation to renew the pride and gratitude we have for this incredible nation that we are blessed to call home and concludes by noting that [w]hen we appreciate America for what she truly is, we know that our Declaration is worth preserving, our Constitution worth defending, our fellow citizens worth loving, and our country worth fighting for.
   President Trump signed an executive order ensuring that public universities protect First Amendment rights or lose funding, addressing student debt by requiring colleges to share a portion of the financial risk, and increasing transparency by requiring universities to disclose information about the value of potential educational programs.
   The United States spends more money on education than any other country in the world.
 In total, American society pours more than a trillion dollars a year into public education systems.
 But instead of being at the top of the list, we are literally right smack -- guess what? -- at the bottom.
   Rather than indoctrinating young people with inappropriate racial, sexual, and political material, which is what we're doing now, our schools must be totally refocused to prepare our children to succeed in the world of work, and in life and the world of keeping our country strong, so they can grow up to be happy, prosperous, and independent citizens.
   Ninth, we will strive to give all students access to internships and work experiences that can set them on a path to their first job.
 But we want our children to have a great life and be successful.
   And one other thing I'll be doing very early in the administration is closing up the Department of Education in Washington D.
 and sending all education and education work and needs back to the States.
 We want them to run the education of our children, because they'll do a much better job of it.
 We spend more money per pupil, by three times, than any other nation.
 We're going to end education coming out of Washington D.
 We're going to close it up -- all those buildings all over the place and yet people that in many cases hate our children.
   There must also be a complete commitment to dismantling the entire globalist neo-con establishment that is perpetually dragging us into endless wars, pretending to fight for freedom and democracy abroad, while they turn us into a third-world country and a third-world dictatorship right here at home.
 The State Department, the defense bureaucracy, the intelligence services, and all the rest need to be completely overhauled and reconstituted to fire the Deep Staters and put America First.
   In addition, there must also be a complete commitment to dismantling the entire globalist neo-con establishment that is perpetually dragging us into endless wars, pretending to fight for freedom and democracy abroad, while they turn us into a third-world country and a third-world dictatorship right here at home.
 The State Department, the defense bureaucracy, the intelligence services, and all the rest need to be completely overhauled and reconstituted to fire the Deep Staters and put America First.
   Finally, we have to finish the process we began under my Administration of fundamentally reevaluating NATO's purpose and NATO's mission.
 Our foreign policy establishment keeps trying to pull the world into conflict with a nuclear-armed Russia based on the lie that Russia represents our greatest threat.
 But the greatest threat to Western Civilization today is not Russia.
 It's probably, more than anything else, ourselves and some of the horrible, U.
 Its the destruction of the rule of law from within.
 It's the collapse of the nuclear family and fertility rates, like nobody can believe is happening.
 It's the Marxists who would have us become a Godless nation worshipping at the altar of race, and gender, and environment.
 And it's the globalist class that has made us totally dependent on China and other foreign countries that basically hate us.
   These globalists want to squander all of America's strength, blood and treasure, chasing monsters and phantoms overseaswhile keeping us distracted from the havoc they're creating right here at home.
 These forces are doing more damage to America than Russia and China could ever have dreamed.
 Evicting the sick and corrupt establishment is the monumental task for the next president.
            For many years, tuition costs at colleges and universities have been exploding, and I mean absolutely exploding while academics have been obsessed with indoctrinating America's youth," President Trump said.
 "The time has come to reclaim our once great educational institutions from the radical Left, and we will do that.
   He will impose real standards on American colleges and universities, to include defending the American tradition and Western civilization, protecting free speech, eliminating wasteful administrative positions that drive up costs, removing all DEI bureaucrats, offering options for accelerated and low-cost degrees, providing meaningful job placement and career services, and implementing college entrance and exit exams to prove that students are getting their money's worth.
   Once back in the White House, President Trump will direct the Department of Justice to pursue federal civil rights cases against schools that continue to engage in racial discrimination and will advance a measure to have schools that continue these illegal and unjust policies fined up to the entire amount of their endowment.
   These standards will include defending the American tradition and Western civilization, protecting free speech, eliminating wasteful administrative positions that drive up costs incredibly, removing all Marxist diversity, equity, and inclusion bureaucrats, offering options for accelerated and low-cost degrees, providing meaningful job placement and career services, and implementing college entrance and exit exams to prove that students are actually learning and getting their money's worth.
   Furthermore, I will direct the Department of Justice to pursue federal civil rights cases against schools that continue to engage in racial discrimination.
 And schools that persist in explicit unlawful discrimination under the guise of equity will not only have their endowment taxed, but through budget reconciliation, I will advance a measure to have them fined up to the entire amount of their endowment.
   A portion of the seized funds will then be used as restitution for victims of these illegal and unjust policies, policies that hurt our country so badly.
 Colleges have gotten hundreds of billions of dollars from hard-working taxpayers and now we are going to get this anti-American insanity out of our institutions once and for all.
   He will impose real standards on American colleges and universities, to include defending the American tradition and Western civilization, protecting free speech, eliminating wasteful administrative positions that drive up costs, removing all DEI bureaucrats, offering options for accelerated and low-cost degrees, providing meaningful job placement and career services, and implementing college entrance and exit exams to prove that students are getting their money's worth.
   Once back in the White House, President Trump will direct the Department of Justice to pursue federal civil rights cases against schools that continue to engage in racial discrimination and will advance a measure to have schools that continue these illegal and unjust policies fined up to the entire amount of their endowment.
   These standards will include defending the American tradition and Western civilization, protecting free speech, eliminating wasteful administrative positions that drive up costs incredibly, removing all Marxist diversity, equity, and inclusion bureaucrats, offering options for accelerated and low-cost degrees, providing meaningful job placement and career services, and implementing college entrance and exit exams to prove that students are actually learning and getting their money's worth.
   Furthermore, I will direct the Department of Justice to pursue federal civil rights cases against schools that continue to engage in racial discrimination.
 And schools that persist in explicit unlawful discrimination under the guise of equity will not only have their endowment taxed, but through budget reconciliation, I will advance a measure to have them fined up to the entire amount of their endowment.
   A portion of the seized funds will then be used as restitution for victims of these illegal and unjust policies, policies that hurt our country so badly.
 Colleges have gotten hundreds of billions of dollars from hard-working taxpayers and now we are going to get this anti-American insanity out of our institutions once and for all.
   When I'm back in the White House, on Day One, we are returning to a foreign policy that puts America's interests first.
 America's chief interest in Eastern Europe is peace and stability.
 This war should never have happened, but it is long past time to end the senseless death and destruction.
 The numbers are much worse than you're reading about or hearing about or than they're telling you.
   I will provide record funding for our military just as I did four great years, if you think about what we were able to do, four great years of rebuilding our military, and we rebuilt it bigger and better and stronger than ever before.
 And we have no ammunition as told stupidly by our president to the world so that everybody could know it.
 But I will also insist that we get more for every dollar spent, because we're spending too much money foolishly and our prices are too high.
   - President Trump will once again exit the horrendously unfair Paris Climate Accords and oppose all of the radical lefts efforts for a Green New Deal that are designed to shut down the development of Americas energy resources that exceed any countrys in the world, including Russia and Saudi Arabia.
   - Under this Act, if any foreign country imposes a tariff on American-made goods, such as cars or car parts, that is higher than the tariff imposed by the U.
 for the same goods, President Trump will have the authority to impose a reciprocal tariff of the same amount on that foreign countrys goods.
   - Because EVs cost an average of TWICE as much as gas-powered vehicles, take longer to fully charge, and have shorter ranges, almost two-thirds of Americans prefer their next car purchase to be a gas-powered vehicle, nearly half of all car dealerships would never sell an EV, and about half of current EV owners plan to switch back to a gas-powered car.
   - The USMCA is projected to produce $34 billion in new automotive manufacturing investments in the U.
 automotive jobs with strict requirements that ensure more cars are made in AMERICAN factories by AMERICAN workers.
   And I hope United Auto Workers is listening to this because I think you better endorse Trump because I am going to grow your business and they are destroying your business.
 How people can vote for you just because its an automatic Democrat vote.
 Look at how they have decimated the car industry over the years.
 Mexico has 32 percent of the business that we used to have.
 But they didnt do it while I was President, I can tell you that.
   - The EO required federal agencies to Buy American by facilitating the domestic production of medicines and medical devices that the FDA determined essential to public health.
 It did so by requiring federal agencies to buy medicines and medical devices that are entirely produced in the United States.
 Trade Representative to modify our international trade agreements so that drugs deemed essential to public health by the FDA can no longer be purchased by federal agencies from any of the 120 countries that has a trade agreement with the U.
 that authorizes the manufacture of such essential drugs for the U.
   - With federal agencies still permitted under current law to purchase medicines essential to public health from any of Americas 120 trading partners, there is no incentive for federal agencies to buy from domestic companies.
 As a result, the United States will continue to be dependent on foreign countries for its most critical medical needs.
   There's currently a shortage of at least 14 critical cancer drugs in the United States.
 And every month of delay, cancer treatment increases the risk of death by at least 10%.
 It's unthinkable that this could be happening in the United States of America in 2023.
 We are becoming a third world country very rapidly between our open borders and our bad elections.
   Instead of treating everyone equally, making decisions based on merit or qualifications, equity means that benefits are awarded and policies are enforced based on skin color and sexual identity.
 Its a catch-all term used by the Radical Left to justify every one of its crazy programs.
 Climate change is now about fighting environmental racism.
 They falsely accuse law enforcement of racism to explain why they must end cash bail instead of busting up bloodthirsty gangs that kill people all over our cities.
   In recent weeks, Americans have been horrified to see students and faculty at Harvard and other once-respected universities expressing support for the savages and jihadists who attacked Israel.
 We spend more money on higher education than any other country, and yet they're turning our students into Communists and terrorists and sympathizers of many, many different dimensions  we can't let this happen.
 Its time to offer something dramatically different.
   Its mission will be to make a truly world-class education available to every American, free of charge, and do it without adding a single dime to the federal debt.
 This institution will gather an entire universe of the highest quality educational content, covering the full spectrum of human knowledge and skills, and make that material available to every American citizen online for free.
   Whether you want lectures or an ancient history or an introduction to financial accounting, or training in a skilled trade, the goal will be to deliver it and get it done properly, using study groups, mentors, industry partnerships, and the latest breakthrough in computing.
 This will be a truly top-tier education option for the people.
   Most importantly, the American Academy will compete directly with the existing and very costly four-year university system by granting students degree credentials that the U.
 government and all federal contractors will henceforth recognize.
 The Academy will award the full and complete equivalent of a bachelor's degree.
   In addition to help the 40 million Americans who have some college education but no degree, the American Academy will grant credit for past coursework at legacy institutions and give you the chance to complete your education at the American Academy for free and much more quickly than is now possible or available.
   Very simply, this meant that if Congress provided more funding than was needed to run the government, the President could refuse to waste the extra funds, and instead return the money to the general treasury and maybe even lower your taxes, although we did give you the biggest tax reduction in history, and the biggest regulation reduction in history, two things I am very proud of.
"   - In defense of the presidents impoundment power against attacks from Congress, Joseph Sneed, Deputy Attorney General under President Richard Nixon, explained that the use of executive impoundment to promote fiscal stability is not usurpation; rather it is in the great tradition of checks and balances upon which our Constitution is based.
   - In his third annual message to Congress explaining why he had not purchased the gunboats as authorized by Congress, President Jefferson declared that a favorable and peaceable turn of affairs on the Mississippi rendered an immediate execution of that law unnecessary.
 President Jefferson used his power as the Chief Executive to impound congressionally appropriated funds based on his foreign policy and national security judgment that the use of the funds would be unwise and unnecessary.
   Of course, this will not include national defense and, unlike Ron DeSanctimonious, who doesnt really know what is happening, I will not lay a finger on Medicare or Social Security.
 He wants to destroy Social Security and basically obliterate Medicare.
 We are not going to let Ron DeSanctus do anything to hurt Medicare or Social Security.
   We had it done and then Covid came in and we had to do some things to help save our country.
 We were going to be taking in massive amounts of money from the liquid gold that we have under our feet.
 And we were going to reduce taxes and pay off debt.
   Three years from now, the United States will celebrate the biggest and most important milestone in our countrys history -- 250 years of American Independence, President Trump said.
 Thats why as a nation, we should be preparing for the most spectacular birthday party.
   OFFERING AN INSPIRING AND UNIFYING VISION OF A SUCCESSFUL AMERICAN FUTURE: This plan builds on President Trumps longstanding commitment to honor our nations 250th anniversary and offers Americans from every state in the Union the chance to come together and share innovative visions for a successful American future:   - In his 2020 Salute to America Independence Day remarks , President Trump stated, Two hundred and forty-four years ago in Philadelphia, the 56 signers of our Declaration of Independence pledged their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor to boldly proclaim this eternal truth: that we are all made equal by God.
   - In his remarks at Mount Rushmore on July 3, 2020, President Trump noted, "Our Founders launched not only a revolution in government, but a revolution in the pursuit of justice, equality, liberty, and prosperity It was all made possible by the courage of 56 patriots who gathered in Philadelphia 244 years ago and signed the Declaration of Independence.
 They enshrined a divine truth that changed the world forever when they said: 'all men are created equal.
'"   Three years from now, the United States will celebrate the biggest and most important milestone in our countrys history -- 250 years of American Independence.
 But thats why as a nation, we should be preparing for the most spectacular birthday party.
 Here is my plan to give Americas founding in 1776 the incredible anniversary it truly deserves.
   On Day One, I will convene a White House task force called Salute to America 250.
 It will be responsible for coordinating with state and local governments to ensure not just one day of celebration, but an entire year of festivities across the nation starting on Memorial Day 2025 and continuing through July 4th, 2026.
   Second, I will work with all 50 Governors, Republican and Democrat alike, to create the Great American State Fair, a unique one-year exhibition featuring pavilions from all fifty states.
 The Great American State Fair will showcase the glory of every state in the Union, promote pride in our history, and put forth innovative visions for Americas future.
   Third, alongside the Great American State Fair, we will host major sporting contests for high school athletes.
 These are great athletes, wonderful athletes from fantastic high schools all around the country.
 These Patriot Games will allow young Americans from every state to show off the best of American skill, sportsmanship, and competitive spirit.
   And finally, and most importantly, I ask Americas great religious communities to pray for our nation and our people as we prepare for this momentous occasion.
 From the very beginning, America has been a country sustained and strengthened by prayer and by our communities of faith.
 As we chart a course toward the next 250 years, let us come together and rededicate ourselves as one nation under God.
   Far more illegal immigrants have entered the United States in the last two years than at any time in American history, and by a massive margin.
 Days ago, 16,000 illegal aliens were encountered crossing the border in a single 48-hour period.
 A colossal migrant caravan recently poured across the Rio Grande and into the streets of El Paso, Texas.
 And the people, and the police, didnt know what to do about it.
   In response to the stunning revelations from the "Twitter Files," President Donald J.
 Trump released a new video calling for an immediate investigation into the disturbing relationship between Big Tech platforms and government agencies, including the coordination of a massive censorship, surveillance, and propaganda campaign against the American people.
   But the censorship of the Laptop from Hell is only the beginning of the story about the weaponization of government against free speech.
 As recent reporting shows, the FBI and other rogue agencies have been systematically colluding with former national security officials placed in high positions at Twitter, and very likely other companies, to advance their censorship regime, which is really in this case to steal an election.
   The Twitter Files prove that we urgently need my plan to dismantle the illegal censorship regime  a regime like nobodys ever seen in the history of our country or most other countries for that matter.
 To prosecute the perpetrators for their crimes, and to restore free speech for all Americans  so important.
 We need a free press, we need free speech, we need fair elections, and we need borders.
   The revelations also highlight why my proposal to end the revolving door between the Deep State  and there is a Deep State indeed.
 I wasnt a believer, but everybodys a believer right now  and the tech tyrants is so important.
 There must be a 7-year cooling off period before any employee of these powerful agencies is allowed to take a job at a major platform.
   We must be able to defend our homeland, our allies, and our military assets around the world from the threat of hypersonic missiles, no matter where they are launched from.
 Just as President Trump rebuilt our military, President Trump will build a state-of-the-art next-generation missile defense shield to defend America from missile attack.
   If you take a look right now, the nuclear word is being mentioned all the time.
 It was never used during the Trump administration, but now other countries are using that word against us because they have no respect for our leadership.
 World War Three would be a catastrophe unlike any other.
 This would make World War One and World War Two like very small battles.
   To this end, when I am Commander-in-Chiefwhich we did an awfully good job at rebuilding our military.
 We rebuilt the entire militaryonce again, I will work with Congress and our great military leaders.
 Not the ones you see on television, I dont consider them leaders.
 Were going to work with them to build a state-of-the-art next-generation missile defense shield.
 Just as Israel is now protected by the Iron Dome, a dream once thought impossible, America must have an impenetrable dome to protect our people.
 They relied on us, not just them, they relied on us.
   We have technology thats unsurpassed but our past leaders havent really wanted to use it.
 I rebuilt our military at a level that nobody thought possible, but we have to now go that further step.
 We must be able to defend our homeland, our allies, and our military assets around the world from the threat of hypersonic missilesno matter where they are launched from.
   Just as I rebuilt our military, especially our nuclear capabilities, I will build the shield to defend America from missile attack.
 And thats what we had, and we had no wars during the Trump administration.
 Because we were strong, the other side knew it, and they didnt want to play games, they didnt want to mess around.
 Trump released a new policy video today highlighting Chinas intrusive actions to own Americas infrastructure and vital industries.
 Under President Trumps bold plan, we will enact new and aggressive regulations to prevent America from falling under Chinese control.
 The United States will also pressure the Chinese to sell off any current holdings that threaten the countrys national and economic security.
   To protect our country, we need to enact aggressive new restrictions on Chinese ownership of any vital infrastructure in the United States, including energy, technology, telecommunications, farmland, natural resources, medical supplies, and other strategic national assets, President Trump said.
 When I'm president, I will ensure that America's future remains firmly in American hands just as I did when I was president before.
   While corrupt Democrats and RINO-type politicians in Washington have been spending trillions of dollars on the Green New Deal nonsense, foolish foreign wars, and providing lavish benefits to illegal aliens from all over the planet, China has been spending trillions of dollars to take over the crown jewels of the U.
   As I have long said, Economic Security is NATIONAL security.
 China does not allow AMERICAN companies to take over THEIR critical infrastructureand America should not allow CHINA to take over OUR critical infrastructure.
 I didnt allow it when I was president, and I wont allow it when we become president again.
   To protect our country, we need to enact aggressive new restrictions on Chinese ownership of any vital infrastructure in the United States, including energy, technology, telecommunications, farmland, natural resources, medical supplies, and other strategic national assets.
 We should stop all future Chinese purchases in these essential industries.
 And we should begin the process of forcing the Chinese to sell any current holdings that put our national security at risk.
   And I'm telling you, you shouldn't pay those dues.
 You should not pay your dues because they're selling you to hell.
 I said if you go to Mexico, Im putting a big tariff.
 Youll make a car you're going to have a 25% tariff if you send that car back into the United States.
 Well, right now they're doing it again, worse than ever before.
 We lost 32% of our industry to Mexico prior to my getting there.
 Direct the Department of Education to inform states and school districts that if any teacher or school official suggests to a child that they could be trapped in the wrong body, they will be faced with severe consequences , including, potential Civil Rights violations for sex discrimination, and the elimination of federal funding .
   I will sign a new executive order instructing every federal agency to cease all programs that promote the concept of sex and gender transition at any age.
 I will then ask Congress to permanently stop federal taxpayer dollars from being used to promote or pay for these procedures, and pass a law prohibiting child sexual mutilation in all 50 states.
   The Department of Justice will investigate Big Pharma and the big hospital networks to determine whether they have deliberately covered up horrific long-term side- effects of sex transitions in order to get rich at the expense of vulnerable patients.
 We will also investigate whether Big Pharma or others have illegally marketed hormones and puberty blockers, which are in no way licensed or approved for this use.
   My Department of Education will inform states and school districts that if any teacher or school official suggests to a child that they could be trapped in the wrong body, they will be faced with severe consequences, including potential Civil Rights violations for sex discrimination, and the elimination of federal funding.
   I will ask Congress to pass a bill establishing that the only genders recognized by the United States government are male and femaleand they are assigned at birth.
 The bill will also make clear that Title Nine prohibits men from participating in womens sports.
 And we will protect the rights of parents from being forced to allow their minor child to assume a gender, which is new, and an identity without the parents consent.
   President Trump today announced his plan to save American education.
 His vision will take back control from the Radical Left maniacs indoctrinating our children, and give our kids the high quality, pro-American education they deserve:  Cut federal funding for any school or program pushing Critical Race Theory, gender ideology, or other inappropriate racial, sexual, or political content on our children.
 Direct the Departments of Justice and Education to open Civil Rights investigations into any school district that has engaged in race-based discrimination, including discrimination against Asian Americans.
 Because the Marxism being taught in schools is aggressively hostile to Judeo-Christian teachings, aggressively pursue potential violations of the Establishment Clause and the Free Exercise Clause of the Constitution.
 Find and  remove the radicals who have infiltrated the federal Department of Education , and get to Congress reaffirm the presidents ability to remove recalcitrant employees from the job.
 Veto the sinister effort to weaponize civics education.
 Create a new credentialing body to certify teachers who embrace patriotic values , and understand that their job is not to indoctrinate children, but to educate them.
 Implement massive funding preferences and favorable treatment for all states and school districts that make the following historic reforms in education: Abolish teacher tenure for grades K through 12 and adopt Merit Pay .
 Drastically cut number of school administrators , including the DEI bureaucracy.
 Adopt a Parental Bill of Rights that includes complete curriculum transparency , and a form of universal school choice .
  Implement the direct election of school principals by the parents, as the ultimate form of local control.
\   The Marxism being preached in our schools is also totally hostile to Judeo-Christian teachings, and in many ways, it is resembling an established new religion.
 For this reason, my administration will aggressively pursue potential violations of the Establishment Clause and the Free Exercise Clause of the Constitution.
   I will veto the sinister effort to weaponize civics education.
 And we will create a new credentialing body that will be the Gold Standard, anywhere in the world, to certify teachers who embrace patriotic values, support our way of life, and understand that their job is not to indoctrinate children, but very simply to educate them.
   Finally, I will implement massive funding preferences and favorable treatment for all states and school districts that make the following historic reforms in education:  One, abolish teacher tenure for grades K through 12, so we can remove BAD teachers, and adopt Merit Pay to reward GOOD teachers.
 Two, drastically cut the bloated number of school administrators, including the costly, divisive, and unnecessary Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion bureaucracy.
 Three, adopt a Parental Bill of Rights that includes complete curriculum transparency, and a form of universal school choice.
 And Four, implement the direct election of school principals by the parents.
 More than anyone else, parents know what their children need.
 If any principal is not getting the job done, the parents should be able to vote to fire them and select someone who will.
 Our country has frankly never had anything like it, or lets say for at least the last fifty years.
   We spend more per pupil than any nation in the world by double.
 We are going to keep spending our money, but we are now going to get our moneys worth.
 We are at the end of every list on education, and yet we spend the most.
 We may spend the most, but we are going to be tops in education no matter where you go anywhere in the world.
   Through these unsustainable losses, we are handing China more and more of our jobs, more and more victories, and long-term prosperity in exchange for cheap, disposable consumer goods.
 We foolishly send China hundreds of billions of dollars and China uses those dollars to buy up our real estate, our factories, and our wealth-creating industries.
   Under my policies, we had virtually no inflation.
 We had rapid wage growth for the first time in many, many years.
 And we had more than 17,000 new factories open up for business right here in the USA.
 Through my Strategic National Manufacturing Initiative, we will do it again.
 We'll be bigger and better and stronger than we've ever been.
   As President, I took the most dramatic action of any administration to curtail Chinas ability to conduct espionage in the United States, President Trump said.
 And when Im back in the White House, those efforts will be expanded in a very, very big way.
 Instead of hunting down Republicans, a reformed FBI and Justice Department will be hunting down Chinese spies.
   When President Trump is back in the White House, he will kick Chinese intelligence operations out of the country and force China to give up any U.
 A strong signal must be sent that America will not allow China to trample our sovereignty and illegally surveil our country.
   The FBI even recently admitted that China operates a secret police force on American soil, how do you like that one, imposing the iron fist of the Communist Party, the rule think of this, the Communist Party rule on Chinese nationals in the United States.
 We will shut that downand we will shut it down cold.
            Agenda 47      READ THE OFFICIAL 2024 Republican Party Platform HERE   President Trumps 20 CORE PROMISES TO MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN! 1   Seal the border and stop the migrant invasion    2   Carry out the largest deportation operation in american history    3   End inflation, and make america affordable again    4   Make america the dominant energy producer in the world, by far! 5   STOP OUTSOURCING, AND TURN THE UNITED STATES INTO A MANUFACTURING SUPERPOWER    6   large tax cuts for workers, and no tax on tips! 7   Defend our constitution, our bill of rights, and our fundamentalfreedoms, including freedom of speech, freedom of religion, and theright to keep and bear arms    8   Prevent world war three, restore peace in europe and in the middleeast, and build a great iron dome missile defense shield over ourentire country -- all made in america    9   End the weaponization of government against the american people    10   Stop the migrant crime epidemic, demolish the foreign drug cartels,crush gang violence, and lock up violent offenders    11   Rebuild our cities, including washington dc, making them safe, clean,and beautiful again.
 12   Strengthen and modernize our military, making it, without question,the strongest and most powerful in the world    13   Keep the U.
 dollar as the world's reserve currency    14   Fight for and protect social security and medicare with no cuts,including no changes to the retirement age    15   Cancel the electric vehicle mandate and cut costly and burdensomeregulations    16   Cut federal funding for any school pushing critical race theory,radical gender ideology, and other inappropriate racial, sexual, orpolitical content on our children    17   Keep men out of women's sports    18   Deport pro-hamas radicals and make our college campuses safe andpatriotic again    19   Secure our elections, including same day voting, voter identification,paper ballots, and proof of citizenship    20   Unite our country by bringing it to new and record levels of success    Read More About the Trump Republican Platform PREAMBLE   America First: A Return to Common Sense   Our Nation's History is filled with the stories of brave men and women who gave everything they had to build America into the Greatest Nation in the History of the World.
 Generations of American Patriots have summoned the American Spirit of Strength, Determination, and Love of Country to overcome seemingly insurmountable challenges.
 The American People have proven time and again that we can overcome any obstacle and any force pitted against us.
 In the early days of our Republic, the Founding Generation defeated what was then the most powerful Empire the World had ever seen.
 In the 20th Century, America vanquished Nazism and Fascism, and then triumphed over Soviet Communism after forty-four years of the Cold War.
 Our future, our identity, and our very way of life are under threat like never before.
 Today we must once again call upon the same American Spirit that led us to prevail through every challenge of the past if we are going to lead our Nation to a brighter future.
 For decades, our politicians sold our jobs and livelihoods to the highest bidders overseas with unfair Trade Deals and a blind faith in the siren song of globalism.
 They insulated themselves from criticism and the consequences of their own bad actions, allowing our Borders to be overrun, our cities to be overtaken by crime, our System of Justice to be weaponized, and our young people to develop a sense of hopelessness and despair.
 Quite simply, they did everything in their power to destroy our Country.
 Trump was elected as an unapologetic Champion of the American People.
 He reignited the American Spirit and called on us to renew our National Pride.
 His Policies spurred Historic Economic Growth, Job Creation, and a Resurgence of American Manufacturing.
 President Trump and the Republican Party led America out of the pessimism induced by decades of failed leadership, showing us that the American People want Greatness for our Country again.
 Like the Heroes who built and defended this Nation before us, we will never give up.
 We will restore our Nation of, by, and for the People.
 We will be a Nation based on Truth, Justice, and Common Sense.
 Common Sense tells us clearly, in President Trump's words, that "If we don't have a Border, we don't have a Country.
" Restoring sensible Border Security and Immigration Policy requires many steps, all of which would have been and indeed were taken for granted by prior Generations as obviously necessary and good.
 We must secure our Southern Border by completing the Border Wall that President Trump started.
 Hundreds of miles have already been built and work magnificently.
 The remaining Wall construction can be completed quickly, effectively, and inexpensively.
 We will start by prioritizing the most dangerous criminals and working with local Police.
 Under the Trump Administration and a Republican Congress, it will be defeated immediately.
 Common Sense tells us clearly that if we don't have Domestic Manufacturing with low Inflation, not only will our Economyand even our Military Equipment and Suppliesbe at the mercy of Foreign Nations, but our Towns, Communities, and People cannot thrive.
 The Republican Party must return to its roots as the Party of Industry, Manufacturing, Infrastructure, and Workers.
 President Trump's economic policy to end Inflation and return Manufacturing Jobs is not only what the American Economy and American Workers need right now, it is also what they want right now.
 Common Sense tells us clearly that we must unleash American Energy if we want to destroy Inflation and rapidly bring down prices, build the Greatest Economy in History, revive our Defense Industrial Base, fuel Emerging Industries, and establish the United States as the Manufacturing Superpower of the World.
 We will DRILL, BABY, DRILL and we will become Energy Independent, and even Dominant again.
 The United States has more liquid gold under our feet than any other Nation, and it's not even close.
 The Republican Party will harness that potential to power our future.
 Common Sense tells us clearly that if we don't have a Strong Military, we won't be able to defend our interests and we will be at the mercy of Hostile Nations.
 The Policy of the Republican Party must be to ensure that America's Military is the strongest and best-equipped in the Worldand that our Government uses that great strength sparingly, and only in clear instances where our National Interests are threatened.
 Common Sense tells us clearly that the Republican Party must stand for Equal Treatment for All.
 Likewise, the Republican Party must ensure the equal application of law to all regardless of political affiliation or personal beliefs.
 Recent Democrat-led political persecutions threaten to destroy 250 years of American Principle and Practice and must be stopped.
 America needs determined Republican Leadership at every level of Government to address the core threats to our very survival: Our disastrously Open Border, our weakened Economy, crippling restrictions on American Energy Production, our depleted Military, attacks on the American System of Justice, and much more.
 To make clear our commitment, we offer to the American people the 2024 GOP Platform to Make America Great Again! It is a forward-looking Agenda that begins with the following twenty promises that we will accomplish very quickly when we win the White House and Republican Majorities in the House and Senate.
 SEAL THE BORDER, AND STOP THE MIGRANT INVASION  CARRY OUT THE LARGEST DEPORTATION OPERATION IN AMERICAN HISTORY  END INFLATION, AND MAKE AMERICA AFFORDABLE AGAIN  MAKE AMERICA THE DOMINANT ENERGY PRODUCER IN THE WORLD, BY FAR! STOP OUTSOURCING, AND TURN THE UNITED STATES INTO A MANUFACTURING SUPERPOWER  LARGE TAX CUTS FOR WORKERS, AND NO TAX ON TIPS! DEFEND OUR CONSTITUTION, OUR BILL OF RIGHTS, AND OUR FUNDAMENTAL FREEDOMS, INCLUDING FREEDOM OF SPEECH, FREEDOM OF RELIGION, AND THE RIGHT TO KEEP AND BEAR ARMS  PREVENT WORLD WAR THREE, RESTORE PEACE IN EUROPE AND IN THE MIDDLE EAST, AND BUILD A GREAT IRON DOME MISSILE DEFENSE SHIELD OVER OUR ENTIRE COUNTRY -- ALL MADE IN AMERICA  END THE WEAPONIZATION OF GOVERNMENT AGAINST THE AMERICAN PEOPLE  STOP THE MIGRANT CRIME EPIDEMIC, DEMOLISH THE FOREIGN DRUG CARTELS, CRUSH GANG VIOLENCE, AND LOCK UP VIOLENT OFFENDERS  REBUILD OUR CITIES, INCLUDING WASHINGTON DC, MAKING THEM SAFE, CLEAN, AND BEAUTIFUL AGAIN.
 STRENGTHEN AND MODERNIZE OUR MILITARY, MAKING IT, WITHOUT QUESTION, THE STRONGEST AND MOST POWERFUL IN THE WORLD  KEEP THE U.
 DOLLAR AS THE WORLD'S RESERVE CURRENCY  FIGHT FOR AND PROTECT SOCIAL SECURITY AND MEDICARE WITH NO CUTS, INCLUDING NO CHANGES TO THE RETIREMENT AGE  CANCEL THE ELECTRIC VEHICLE MANDATE AND CUT COSTLY AND BURDENSOME REGULATIONS  CUT FEDERAL FUNDING FOR ANY SCHOOL PUSHING CRITICAL RACE THEORY, RADICAL GENDER IDEOLOGY, AND OTHER INAPPROPRIATE RACIAL, SEXUAL, OR POLITICAL CONTENT ON OUR CHILDREN  KEEP MEN OUT OF WOMEN'S SPORTS  DEPORT PRO-HAMAS RADICALS AND MAKE OUR COLLEGE CAMPUSES SAFE AND PATRIOTIC AGAIN  SECURE OUR ELECTIONS, INCLUDING SAME DAY VOTING, VOTER IDENTIFICATION, PAPER BALLOTS, AND PROOF OF CITIZENSHIP  UNITE OUR COUNTRY BY BRINGING IT TO NEW AND RECORD LEVELS OF SUCCESS    *****   When America is united, confident, and committed to our principles, it will never fail.
 Today and together, with Love for our Country, Faith in our People, and Trust in God's Good Grace, we will Make America Great Again! Table of Contents   1.
 DEFEAT INFLATION, AND QUICKLY BRING DOWN ALL PRICES.
 BRING BACK THE AMERICAN DREAM AND MAKE IT AFFORDABLE AGAIN FOR FAMILIES, YOUNG PEOPLE, AND EVERYONE.
 PROTECT AMERICAN WORKERS AND FARMERS FROM UNFAIR TRADE.
 CULTIVATE GREAT K-12 SCHOOLS LEADING TO GREAT JOBS AND GREAT LIVES FOR YOUNG PEOPLE.
 BRING COMMON SENSE TO OUR GOVERNMENT AND RENEW THE PILLARS OF AMERICAN CIVILIZATION   9.
 CHAPTER ONE : DEFEAT INFLATION AND QUICKLY BRING DOWN ALL PRICES   Our Commitment:   The Republican Party will reverse the worst Inflation crisis in four decades that has crushed the middle class, devastated family budgets, and pushed the dream of homeownership out of reach for millions.
 We will defeat Inflation, tackle the cost-of-living crisis, improve fiscal sanity, restore price stability, and quickly bring down prices.
 Inflation is a crushing tax on American families.
 History shows that Inflation will not magically disappear while policies remain the same.
 We commit to unleashing American Energy, reining in wasteful spending, cutting excessive Regulations, securing our Borders, and restoring Peace through Strength.
 Together, we will restore Prosperity, ensure Economic Security, and build a brighter future for American Workers and their families.
 Our dedication to these Policies will make America stronger, more resilient, and more prosperous than ever before.
 Unleash American Energy    Under President Trump, the U.
 became the Number One Producer of Oil and Natural Gas in the World  and we will soon be again by lifting restrictions on American Energy Production and terminating the Socialist Green New Deal.
 Republicans will unleash Energy Production from all sources, including nuclear, to immediately slash Inflation and power American homes, cars, and factories with reliable, abundant, and affordable Energy.
 Rein in Wasteful Federal Spending    Republicans will immediately stabilize the Economy by slashing wasteful Government spending and promoting Economic Growth.
 Cut Costly and Burdensome Regulations    Republicans will reinstate President Trump's Deregulation Policies, which saved Americans $11,000 per household, and end Democrats' regulatory onslaught that disproportionately harms low- and middle-income households.
 Stop Illegal Immigration    Republicans will secure the Border, deport Illegal Aliens, and reverse the Democrats' Open Borders Policies that have driven up the cost of Housing, Education, and Healthcare for American families.
 Restore Peace through Strength    War breeds Inflation while geopolitical stability brings price stability.
 Republicans will end the global chaos and restore Peace through Strength, reducing geopolitical risks and lowering commodity prices.
 CHAPTER TWO : SEAL THE BORDER, AND STOP THE MIGRANT INVASION   Our Commitment:   Republicans offer an aggressive plan to stop the open-border policies that have opened the floodgates to a tidal wave of illegal Aliens, deadly drugs, and Migrant Crime.
 We will end the Invasion at the Southern Border, restore Law and Order, protect American Sovereignty, and deliver a Safe and Prosperous Future for all Americans.
 Secure the Border    Republicans will restore every Border Policy of the Trump administration and halt all releases of Illegal Aliens into the interior.
 We will complete the Border Wall, shift massive portions of Federal Law Enforcement to Immigration Enforcement, and use advanced technology to monitor and secure the Border.
 We will use all resources needed to stop the Invasionincluding moving thousands of Troops currently stationed overseas to our own Southern Border.
 Navy to impose a full Fentanyl Blockade on the waters of our Regionboarding and inspecting ships to look for fentanyl and fentanyl precursors.
 Before we defend the Borders of Foreign Countries, we must first secure the Border of our Country.
 Enforce Immigration Laws    Republicans will strengthen ICE, increase penalties for illegal entry and overstaying Visas, and reinstate "Remain in Mexico" and other Policies that helped reduce Illegal Immigration by historic lows in President Trump's first term.
 We will also invoke the Alien Enemies Act to remove all known or suspected gang members, drug dealers, or cartel members from the United States, ending the scourge of Illegal Alien gang violence once and for all.
 We will bring back the Travel Ban, and use Title 42 to end the child trafficking crisis by returning all trafficked children to their families in their Home Countries immediately.
 Begin Largest Deportation Program in American History   President Trump and Republicans will reverse the Democrats' destructive Open Borders Policies that have allowed criminal gangs and Illegal Aliens from around the World to roam the United States without consequences.
 The Republican Party is committed to sending Illegal Aliens back home and removing those who have violated our Laws.
 Strict Vetting   Republicans will use existing Federal Law to keep foreign Christian-hating Communists, Marxists, and Socialists out of America.
 Those who join our Country must love our Country.
 We will use extreme vetting to ensure that jihadists and jihadist sympathizers are not admitted.
 Stop Sanctuary Cities   Republicans will cut federal Funding to sanctuary jurisdictions that release dangerous Illegal Alien criminals onto our streets, rather than handing them over to ICE.
 We will require local cooperation with Federal Immigration Enforcement.
 Ensure Our Legal Immigration System Puts American Workers First   Republicans will prioritize Merit-based immigration, ensuring those admitted to our Country contribute positively to our Society and Economy, and never become a drain on Public Resources.
 We will end Chain Migration, and put American Workers first! CHAPTER THREE : BUILD THE GREATEST ECONOMY IN HISTORY   Our Commitment:   American Workers are the most productive, talented, and innovative on Earth.
 The only thing holding them back is the suffocating policies of the Democrat Party.
 Our America First Economic Agenda rests on five pillars: Slashing Regulations, cutting Taxes, securing Fair Trade Deals, ensuring Reliable and Abundant Low Cost Energy, and championing Innovation.
 Together, we will restore Economic Prosperity and Opportunity for all Americans.
 Cut Regulations   Republicans will slash Regulations that stifle Jobs, Freedom, Innovation and make everything more expensive.
 We will implement Transparency and Common Sense in rulemaking.
 Make Trump Tax Cuts Permanent and No Tax on Tips   Republicans will make permanent the provisions of the Trump Tax Cuts and Jobs Act that doubled the standard deduction, expanded the Child Tax Credit, and spurred Economic Growth for all Americans.
 We will eliminate Taxes on Tips for millions of Restaurant and Hospitality Workers, and pursue additional Tax Cuts.
 Fair and Reciprocal Trade Deals   Republicans will continue forging an America First Trade Policy as set forth in Chapter 5, standing up to Countries that cheat and prioritizing American Producers over Foreign Outsourcers.
 We will bring our critical Supply Chains back home.
 President Trump turned American Trade Policy around, protecting U.
 Reliable and Abundant Low Cost Energy   Republicans will increase Energy Production across the board, streamline permitting, and end market-distorting restrictions on Oil, Natural Gas, and Coal.
 The Republican Party will once again make America Energy Independent, and then Energy Dominant, lowering Energy prices even below the record lows achieved during President Trump's first term.
 Champion Innovation   Republicans will pave the way for future Economic Greatness by leading the World in Emerging Industries.
 Crypto   Republicans will end Democrats' unlawful and unAmerican Crypto crackdown and oppose the creation of a Central Bank Digital Currency.
 We will defend the right to mine Bitcoin, and ensure every American has the right to self-custody of their Digital Assets, and transact free from Government Surveillance and Control.
 In its place, Republicans support AI Development rooted in Free Speech and Human Flourishing.
 Expanding Freedom, Prosperity and Safety in Space    Under Republican Leadership, the United States will create a robust Manufacturing Industry in Near Earth Orbit, send American Astronauts back to the Moon, and onward to Mars, and enhance partnerships with the rapidly expanding Commercial Space sector to revolutionize our ability to access, live in, and develop assets in Space.
 CHAPTER FOUR : BRING BACK THE AMERICAN DREAM AND MAKE IT AFFORDABLE AGAIN FOR FAMILIES, YOUNG PEOPLE, AND EVERYONE    Our Commitment:   Republicans offer a plan to make the American Dream affordable again.
 We commit to reducing Housing, Education, and Healthcare costs, while lowering everyday expenses, and increasing opportunities.
 Housing Affordability   To help new home buyers, Republicans will reduce mortgage rates by slashing Inflation, open limited portions of Federal Lands to allow for new home construction, promote homeownership through Tax Incentives and support for first-time buyers, and cut unnecessary Regulations that raise housing costs.
 Accessible Higher Education   To reduce the cost of Higher Education, Republicans will support the creation of additional, drastically more affordable alternatives to a traditional four-year College degree.
 Affordable Healthcare   Healthcare and prescription drug costs are out of control.
 Republicans will increase Transparency, promote Choice and Competition, and expand access to new Affordable Healthcare and prescription drug options.
 We will protect Medicare, and ensure Seniors receive the care they need without being burdened by excessive costs.
 Lower Everyday Costs   Republicans will reduce the Regulatory burden, lower Energy costs, and promote Economic Policies that drive down the cost of living and prices for everyday goods and services.
 CHAPTER FIVE : PROTECT AMERICAN WORKERS AND FARMERS FROM UNFAIR TRADE   Our Commitment:    The Republican Party stands for a patriotic "America First" Economic Policy.
 Republicans offer a robust plan to protect American Workers, Farmers, and Industries from unfair Foreign Competition.
 We commit to rebalancing Trade, securing Strategic Independence, and revitalizing Manufacturing.
 We will prioritize Domestic Production, and ensure National Independence in essential goods and services.
 Together, we will build a Strong, Self-reliant, and Prosperous America.
 Rebalance Trade   Our Trade deficit in goods has grown to over $1 Trillion Dollars a year.
 Republicans will support baseline Tariffs on Foreign-made goods, pass the Trump Reciprocal Trade Act, and respond to unfair Trading practices.
 As Tariffs on Foreign Producers go up, Taxes on American Workers, Families, and Businesses can come down.
 Secure Strategic Independence from China   Republicans will revoke China's Most Favored Nation status, phase out imports of essential goods, and stop China from buying American Real Estate and Industries.
 Bring Home Critical Supply Chains   Republicans will bring critical Supply Chains back to the U.
, ensuring National Security and Economic Stability, while also creating Jobs and raising Wages for American Workers.
 Buy American and Hire American   Republicans will strengthen Buy American and Hire American Policies, banning companies that outsource jobs from doing business with the Federal Government.
 Become the Manufacturing Superpower   By protecting American Workers from unfair Foreign Competition and unleashing American Energy, Republicans will restore American Manufacturing, creating Jobs, Wealth, and Investment.
 CHAPTER SIX : PROTECT SENIORS   Our Commitment:   President Trump has made absolutely clear that he will not cut one penny from Medicare or Social Security.
 American Citizens work hard their whole lives, contributing to Social Security and Medicare.
 These programs are promises to our Seniors, ensuring they can live their golden years with dignity.
 Republicans will protect these vital programs and ensure Economic Stability.
 We will work with our Great Seniors, in order to allow them to be active and healthy.
 We commit to safeguarding the future for our Seniors and all American families.
 Protect Social Security   Social Security is a lifeline for millions of Retirees, yet corrupt politicians have robbed Social Security to fund their pet projects.
 Republicans will restore Economic Stability to ensure the long-term sustainability of Social Security.
 Strengthen Medicare   Republicans will protect Medicare's finances from being financially crushed by the Democrat plan to add tens of millions of new illegal immigrants to the rolls of Medicare.
 We vow to strengthen Medicare for future generations.
 Support Active and Healthy Living   Republicans will support increased focus on Chronic Disease prevention and management, Long-Term Care, and Benefit flexibility.
 We will expand access to Primary Care and support Policies that help Seniors remain in their homes and maintain Financial Security.
 Protect Care at Home for the Elderly   Republicans will shift resources back to at-home Senior Care, overturn disincentives that lead to Care Worker shortages, and support unpaid Family Caregivers through Tax Credits and reduced red tape.
 Protect Economic Foundations for Supporting Seniors   Republicans will tackle Inflation, unleash American Energy, restore Economic Growth, and secure our Borders to preserve Social Security and Medicare funding for the next Generation and beyond.
 We will ensure these programs remain solvent long into the future by reversing harmful Democrat policies and unleashing a new Economic Boom.
 CHAPTER SEVEN : CULTIVATE GREAT K-12 SCHOOLS LEADING TO GREAT JOBS AND GREAT LIVES FOR YOUNG PEOPLE   Our Commitment:   Republicans offer a plan to cultivate great K-12 schools, ensure safe learning environments free from political meddling, and restore Parental Rights.
 We commit to an Education System that empowers students, supports families, and promotes American Values.
 Our Education System must prepare students for successful lives and well-paying jobs.
 Great Principals and Great Teachers   Republicans will support schools that focus on Excellence and Parental Rights.
 We will support ending Teacher Tenure, adopting Merit pay, and allowing various publicly supported Educational models.
 Universal School Choice   Republicans believe families should be empowered to choose the best Education for their children.
 We support Universal School Choice in every State in America.
 We will expand 529 Education Savings Accounts and support Homeschooling Families equally.
 Prepare Students for Jobs and Careers   Republicans will emphasize Education to prepare students for great jobs and careers, supporting project-based learning and schools that offer meaningful work experience.
 We will expose politicized education models and fund proven career training programs.
 Safe, Secure, and Drug-Free Schools   Republicans will support overhauling standards on school discipline, advocate for immediate suspension of violent students, and support hardening schools to help keep violence away from our places of learning.
 Restore Parental Rights   Republicans will restore Parental Rights in Education, and enforce our Civil Rights Laws to stop schools from discriminating on the basis of Race.
 Knowledge and Skills, Not CRT and Gender Indoctrination   Republicans will ensure children are taught fundamentals like Reading, History, Science, and Math, not Leftwing propaganda.
 We will defund schools that engage in inappropriate political indoctrination of our children using Federal Taxpayer Dollars.
 Promote Love of Country with Authentic Civics Education   Republicans will reinstate the 1776 Commission, promote Fair and Patriotic Civics Education, and veto efforts to nationalize Civics Education.
 We will support schools that teach America's Founding Principles and Western Civilization.
 Freedom to Pray   Republicans will champion the First Amendment Right to Pray and Read the Bible in school, and stand up to those who violate the Religious Freedoms of American students.
 Return Education to the States   The United States spends more money per pupil on Education than any other Country in the World, and yet we are at the bottom of every educational list in terms of results.
 We are going to close the Department of Education in Washington, D.
 and send it back to the States, where it belongs, and let the States run our educational system as it should be run.
 Our Great Teachers, who are so important to the future wellbeing of our Country, will be cherished and protected by the Republican Party so that they can do the job of educating our students that they so dearly want to do.
 It is our goal to bring Education in the United States to the highest level, one that it has never attained before! CHAPTER EIGHT: BRING COMMON SENSE TO GOVERNMENT AND RENEW THE PILLARS OF AMERICAN CIVILIZATION   Our Commitment:   Republicans offer a plan to renew American Civilization with Common Sense Policies that supports families, restores Law and Order, cares for Veterans, promotes beauty, and honors American History.
 We commit to strengthening the Foundations of our Society for a brighter future.
 Empower American Families   Republicans will promote a Culture that values the Sanctity of Marriage, the blessings of childhood, the foundational role of families, and supports working parents.
 Rebuild Our Cities and Restore Law and Order   Republicans will restore safety in our neighborhoods by replenishing Police Departments, restoring Common Sense Policing, and protecting Officers from frivolous lawsuits.
 We will stand up to Marxist Prosecutors, vigorously defend the Right of every American to live in peace, and we will compassionately address homelessness to restore order to our streets.
 the Safest and Most Beautiful Capital City   Republicans will reassert greater Federal Control over Washington, DC to restore Law and Order in our Capital City, and ensure Federal Buildings and Monuments are well-maintained.
 Take Care of Our Veterans   Republicans will end luxury housing and Taxpayer benefits for Illegal Immigrants and use those savings to shelter and treat homeless Veterans.
 We will restore Trump Administration reforms to expand Veterans' Healthcare Choices, protect Whistleblowers, and hold accountable poorly performing employees not giving our Veterans the care they deserve.
 Make Colleges and Universities Sane and Affordable   Republicans will fire Radical Left accreditors, drive down Tuition costs, restore Due Process protections, and pursue Civil Rights cases against Schools that discriminate.
 Combat Antisemitism   Republicans condemn antisemitism, and support revoking Visas of Foreign Nationals who support terrorism and jihadism.
 We will hold accountable those who perpetrate violence against Jewish people.
 Overcome the Crisis in Liberal Arts Education   Republicans support the restoration of Classic Liberal Arts Education.
 Restore American Beauty   Republicans will promote beauty in Public Architecture and preserve our Natural Treasures.
 We will build cherished symbols of our Nation, and restore genuine Conservation efforts.
 Honor American History   Republicans celebrate our Great American Heroes and are proud that the Story of America makes everyone free.
 We will organize a National Celebration to mark the 250th Anniversary of the Founding of the United States of America.
 CHAPTER NINE: GOVERNMENT OF, BY, AND FOR THE PEOPLE   Our Commitment:   Republicans will offer a clear, precise, and USA oriented plan to stop the Radical Left Democrats' Weaponization of Government and its Assault on American Liberty.
 We will restore Government of, by, and for the People, ensuring Accountability, protecting Individual Liberties, and fixing our once very corrupt Elections.
 We commit to upholding the Constitution of the United States, appointing judges who respect the rule of law, and defending the Rights of all Americans to Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness.
 We will maintain the Supreme Court as it was always meant to be, at 9 Justices.
 We will not allow the Democrat Party to increase this number, as they would like to do, by 4, 6, 8, 10, and even 12 Justices.
 Republicans Will Stop Woke and Weaponized Government   We will hold accountable those who have misused the power of Government to unjustly prosecute their Political Opponents.
 We will declassify Government records, root out wrongdoers, and fire corrupt employees.
 Republicans Will Dismantle Censorship & Protect Free Speech   We will ban the Federal Government from colluding with anyone to censor Lawful Speech, defund institutions engaged in censorship, and hold accountable all bureaucrats involved with illegal censoring.
 Republicans Will Defend Religious Liberty   We are the defenders of the First Amendment Right to Religious Liberty.
 It protects the Right not only to Worship according to the dictates of Conscience, but also to act in accordance with those Beliefs, not just in places of Worship, but in everyday life.
 Our ranks include men and women from every Faith and Tradition, and we respect the Right of every American to follow his or her deeply held Beliefs.
 To protect Religious Liberty, Republicans support a new Federal Task Force on Fighting Anti-Christian Bias that will investigate all forms of illegal discrimination, harassment, and persecution against Christians in America.
 Republicans Will Protect and Defend a Vote of the People, from within the States, on the Issue of Life   We proudly stand for families and Life.
 We believe that the 14th Amendment to the Constitution of the United States guarantees that no person can be denied Life or Liberty without Due Process, and that the States are, therefore, free to pass Laws protecting those Rights.
 After 51 years, because of us, that power has been given to the States and to a vote of the People.
 We will oppose Late Term Abortion, while supporting mothers and policies that advance Prenatal Care, access to Birth Control, and IVF (fertility treatments).
 Republicans Will Ensure Election Integrity   We will implement measures to secure our Elections, including Voter ID, highly sophisticated paper ballots, proof of Citizenship, and same day Voting.
 We will not allow the Democrats to give Voting Rights to illegal Aliens.
 Republicans Will Protect Americans in the Territories.
 The territories of Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, the U.
 Virgin Islands, and Puerto Rico are of vital importance to our National Security, and we welcome their greater participation in all aspects of the political process.
 CHAPTER TEN: RETURN TO PEACE THROUGH STRENGTH   Our Commitment:   Keeping the American People safe requires a strong America.
 The Republican Plan is to return Peace through Strength, rebuilding our Military and Alliances, countering China, defeating terrorism, building an Iron Dome Missile Defense Shield, promoting American Values, securing our Homeland and Borders, and reviving our Defense Industrial Base.
 We will build a Military bigger, better, and stronger than ever before.
 Our full commitment is to protecting America and ensuring a safe and prosperous future for all.
 The National Interest   Republicans will promote a Foreign Policy centered on the most essential American Interests, starting with protecting the American Homeland, our People, our Borders, our Great American Flag, and our Rights under God.
 Modernize the Military   Republicans will ensure our Military is the most modern, lethal and powerful Force in the World.
 We will invest in cutting-edge research and advanced technologies, including an Iron Dome Missile Defense Shield, support our Troops with higher pay, and get woke Leftwing Democrats fired as soon as possible.
 Strengthen Alliances   Republicans will strengthen Alliances by ensuring that our Allies must meet their obligations to invest in our Common Defense and by restoring Peace to Europe.
 We will stand with Israel, and seek peace in the Middle East.
 We will rebuild our Alliance Network in the Region to ensure a future of Peace, Stability, and Prosperity.
 Likewise, we will champion Strong, Sovereign, and Independent Nations in the Indo-Pacific, thriving in Peace and Commerce with others.
 Strengthen Economic, Military, and Diplomatic Capabilities   Republicans will strengthen Economic, Military, and Diplomatic capabilities to protect the American way of life from the malign influences of Countries that stand against us around the World.
 Defend America's Borders   Against all odds, President Trump has completed Hundreds of Miles of Wall, and he will quickly finish the job.
 Republicans will mobilize Military personnel and assets as necessary to crack down hard on the cartels that traffic drugs and people into our Country.
 Revive our Industrial Base   Our Industrial Base is critical to ensuring good jobs for our people but also the reliable production of vital Defense platforms and supplies.
 Our Policy must be to revive our Industrial Base, with priority on Defense-critical industries.
 Equipment and parts critical to American Security must be MADE IN THE USA.
 Protect Critical Infrastructure   Republicans will use all tools of National Power to protect our Nation's Critical Infrastructure and Industrial Base from malicious cyber actors.
 This will be a National Priority, and we will both raise the Security Standards for our Critical Systems and Networks and defend them against bad actors.
 APP Note: This platform was approved and made public by the platform committee on July 8, 2024 and formally adopted at the Republican National Convention on July 15, 2024.
 Republican Party Platforms, 2024 Republican Party Platform Online by Gerhard Peters and John T.
 Woolley, The American Presidency Project https://www.
